---
layout: post
title: Journal
---
 
MON APR 16
----------
**Why?**
Q: Why is dependency injection not so great?

A: Because it is a sauce for spaghetti code. Makes it taste better. A way to scope. But global. Inject needless dependencies. For example, you likely only need one method out of eight. By example, one injects more dep than needed.

60-90 minute segments today. 

[ ] Prepare Presentation

Q: Why isn't software an engineering?

A:Could be because engineers know about tradeoffs. Software developers (engineers) know the benefits of everything and the tradeoffs of nothing. - needs some credit to ... language designer; lisp java; closure; rich hickey


SUN APR 15
----------
Ray Dalio, "What is your recipe for success?" The principles. Write them down. 

Notes from Ray: Principles

You have to be an independent thinker. Whether you are an investor or entrepreneur, you have to think differently. You have to bet against the conscensus and be right. When you go down that path, you are going to be wrong a number of times. Humility.

The fear of being wrong should make you open-minded. I'm either going to have success or I'm going to gain understanding.

Pain + Reflection = Progress

Idea Meritocracy - best ideas win out

The magic: idea metritocracy in which the goals are meaningful work and meaningful relationships which are achieved via radical truthfulness and radical transparency. Radical truthfulness means that anyone can say what they mean. Radical transparency means you can't manipulate the truth.

Simple steps

Step 1: create an environment for candor 

Step 2: understand art of thoughtful feedback and disagreement

Step 3: if you don't have agreement, then how do you need a mechanism to get past it


1st order consequences are usually opposite to 2cd order consquences.

How to make the most out of failure? Micro failures. Macro wins.

I'm not really competitive. I'm driven.

Q: Can you separate yourself from your opinions?

**What?**
What is your recipe for success?
I wish everyone could answer this question. 
Great question. Use it for QED120.


SAT APR 14
---------- 
Algebraic Types as a DSL that describes the domain.

Don Syme has great F# tips during his [F# Keynote](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/11439-keynote-f-sharp-code-i-love#showModal?modal-signup-complete)

FRI APR 13
----------

**Why?**
 
Q: Why doesn't imperative code come with the same side-effect warnings as OTC medication?

A: Imperative could cause disorientation, confusion, and general sense of worry. Imperative can cause outbreaks of NullPointer, Application, and other exceptions. Use caution when integrating. Leakage of memory and other resources have been reported. Do not use Imperative when operating in production. Insomonia, thoughts of suicide, spontaneous outbreaks of profanity can occur.  Please use Imperative responsibly. Do not use Imperative if you are using any other imperative code. 

Be sure to ask a functional developer before using Imperative.  

**F#**

[fsharpConf](http://fsharpconf.com/) starts in 3 days -- Monday April 16
Free web conference on channel 9

**MISU**

**Logic**

When you think the code is defying logic, it's problably the logic. This lesson, I learn over and over.  

Be pro-stuff not anti-stuff


THUR APR 12
-----------

**Where?**

Q: Where should I put my journal on the web to make it more available and transparent.

A: Start a GitHub blog. Natural. Using Jekell Now for easy config

**F#**

[F# Keynote](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/11439-keynote-f-sharp-code-i-love#showModal?modal-signup-complete) to watch.

"You either walk toward humility or it will find you." -- Andrew Kerr


