---
layout: post
title: Daily Q 2018
---




MON DEC 31
----------
Gotta believe.

SUN DEC 30
----------
The Master Algorithm
by Pedro Domingos

What is the master algorithm?

5 Tribes of Machine Learning
1. Symbolists: 
Inverse Deduction

2. Connectionists:
Neural Networks

3. Evolutionaries:
Genetic Algorithms

4. Baysians:
Graphical Models

5. Analogizers:
Support Vectors

Each camp thinks they already have the master algorithm.

Today, the master algorithm is probably best: 

SAT DEC 29
----------
OU vs Alambama 7:00 PM

FRI DEC 28
----------
Mongolian beef:
brown sugar
garlic
soy sauce
green onion

corn starch

THU DEC 27
----------
PUBG
Top 10's: 20.8%

WED DEC 26
----------
Improving Civility in the workplace
https://hbr.org/ideacast/2018/12/improving-civility-in-the-workplace.html

Annie Dillard said how we spend our days is how we spend our lives. How do we spend our days? At work. So we have to get this right.

But that’s also this other interesting reflection and perhaps reframing that is flowing out of human beings – 21st Century human beings – wanting their work to be more integrated with their life, with their life in the world with who they want to be with the world they went to inhabit. With the world we’re creating for our children.

When you create a place that people are excited to come in the morning where their creativity is not hindered by bureaucracy and kind of soul-stealing process and hierarchy, it is unleashed.

KRISTA TIPPETT: The interesting thing is that in very recent history, we didn’t even really think we had to put those two words together in a sentence – civility and the workplace. Somehow in the late 20th century, we lived with a different kind of structure and role expectation in every aspect of our lives, right? Even in the family. People played roles in inhabited them and compartmentalize their lives, including distinguishing between their lives at work and their lives at home.

And somehow that worked and it doesn’t work anymore. And I think new generations, in particular, are just not willing to divide themselves up in that way. And in terms of the civility piece, 

I mean this is also one manifestation of the fact that the human drama has entered public life and political life in a way that it wasn’t out on the surface before and it and it has entered all of the aspects of our life together. And life at work is one of those.

Somehow we used to be able to pretend that we could separate these spheres out, but I think any leader of an organization now – you know, and I am one – has to take in and acknowledge that people are coming to work, feeling all the feelings, having all the reactions around the things that are happening in public life now.

TUE DEC 25
----------
Put honey on -- last hour.

MON DEC 24
----------
How I fixed missing menu bar in VS code:
VS Code: Workbench -> Activity Bar -> Visible

Unset

SUN DEC 23
----------
Hold the best question. In science, you hold the best question you can, and that will yield the better discoveries.

SAT DEC 22
----------
The scientific method
an empirical method of knowledge acquisition which has characterized the development of science since at least the 17th century. It involves careful observation, which includes rigorous skepticism about what is observed, given that cognitive assumptions about how the world works influence how one interprets a percept. It involves formulating hypotheses, via induction, based on such observations; experimental and measurement-based testing of deductions drawn from the hypotheses; and refinement (or elimination) of the hypotheses based on the experimental findings. These are principles of the scientific method, as opposed to a definitive series of steps applicable to all scientific enterprises.

FRI DEC 21
----------
http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/

Exception/Analysis Reporting

THU DEC 20
----------
VS Code: column selection: 
ALT+SHIFT then use mouse

WED DEC 19
----------
Q: Do you know why you shouldn't use "beef_stew" as a password?
A: BC it's not stroganoff.


TUE DEC 18
----------
USQL Left Excluding

@diffs=
    SELECT t.*
    FROM @transformed AS t
         LEFT JOIN
             @customersFull AS c
         ON t.CustomerId == c.CustomerId
    WHERE c.CustomerId == null;

MON DEC 17
----------
Happy b-day Ainse!

SUN DEC 16
----------
axiom
conversant: digital advertising -- part of epilon -- not true cdp

SAT DEC 15
----------
;WITH cte AS
(
   SELECT *,
         ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY DocumentID ORDER BY DateCreated DESC) AS rn
   FROM DocumentStatusLogs
)
SELECT *
FROM cte
WHERE rn = 1

FRI DEC 14
----------
Big data testing involves checking various characteristics like conformity, accuracy, duplication, consistency, validity, and data completeness.

Testing/Validation as a part of not CI pipeline but also production pipeline

Framework for Result Analysis Testing
+ Key, Value, TimeStamp, Severity (info, warning, error)

Types of Results of Analysis
---------------------------
1. Counts such as total_customers, duplicate_count, ... (within expected range)
2. Duplication checks (not expecting duplicates)
3. Completeness checks (columns null)
4. Validation checks (data validation correctness)

Reduce
------
should be fewer

Map
---
should be same number

Joins 
-----
Expecting one? If not then duplicates likely
Counts within expecting range?

Performance Testing
-------------------
1. Ingesting and throughput
2. Processing
3. Components

How?
----
1. AU Analysis
2. Experiments (measurements)
3. Filter first

Challenges
----------
Test data / set up
Retesting

THU DEC 13
----------
var isTrue = (ctx.aNullableBool == true); // false if false or null

WED DEC 12
----------
Q: What if you were falsely blamed for something -- how do you handle -- even if later you find out what really happened?

A: If it's public then maybe nothing to do, but a learning opportunity for all. What did I learn? Don't work projects with bad unchangeable leadership. Like Massimo said try to never have a bad client, because the next one could be worse.

TUE DEC 11
----------
, ROW_NUMBER() OVER (PARTITION BY job_name, table_name ORDER BY last_vercol DESC) AS RowNumber

MON DEC 10
----------
"A common fallacy is to assume authors of incomprehensible code will be able to express themselves clearly in comments." - Kevlin Henney

SUN DEC 9
---------
No one can fool you as easily as you can fool yourself!  - Richard Feyman

Trust nobody, not even yourself. meme 2014

https://twitter.com/i/status/1071516579119144961

C# 8.0 null by default no more
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/magazine/mt829270.aspx?f=255&MSPPError=-2147217396
https://www.kenneth-truyers.net/2018/03/20/whats-new-c-8-0/


SAT DEC 8
---------
HBO: The truth about killer robots. Started today. Focuses mostly on couple of automated driver deaths. Tesla.

FRI DEC 7
---------
Why do I play pubg? Why do I like? Is there a compulsion loop? What is it?

I like the strategy. Game theory. Makes me feel excitement like I did when I was a kid.
Not sure about compulsion loop. Maybe it is not necessary to have one. I guess just to do better each time.

THU DEC 6
---------
Grateful for Eli not getting hurt. Safety.

WED DEC 5
---------
Swift does not reliable do "tail call optimization"

TUE DEC 4
---------
Microsoft #1 contributor on github.

Open sourcing Forms, WPF, 

MON DEC 3
---------
When trained in self-defense, you should also be trained in self-restraint and de-escalation.

SUN DEC 2
---------
Total functional programming (also known as strong functional programming, to be contrasted with ordinary, or weak functional programming) is a programming paradigm that restricts the range of programs to those that are provably terminating.

Termination is guaranteed by the following restrictions: 
1. A restricted form of recursion, which operates only upon ‘reduced’ forms of its arguments, such as Walther recursion, substructural recursion, or "strongly normalizing" as proven by abstract interpretation of code.[3]
2. Every function must be a total (as opposed to partial) function. That is, it must have a definition for everything inside its domain. 

There are several possible ways to extend commonly used partial functions such as division to be total: choosing an arbitrary result for inputs on which the function is normally undefined (such as 
∀ x ∈ N . x ÷ 0 = 0 for division); adding another argument to specify the result for those inputs; or excluding them by use of type system features such as refinement types.

SAT DEC 1
---------
How to disagree productively and find common ground

Way to reach people
+ Find common ground
+ Separate ideas from identity. you are not your design.
+ Open to experimentation

Provide kind feedback.

2 Q
Have you found joy?
Has your life brought joy to others?

True love is 20+ years of design.

FRI NOV 30
----------
Need to start doing daily gratitude again. 

So grateful for living in southern california in 1980s. Newport beach. Southern Ca. Irvine. We had two original Apple computers in computer lab but not used. Teacher was forward looking and was going to save them -- not send back for upgrade. Hexagon design. Seems like it could be classifed as brutalist architecture too since of the concrete and reoccuring geometric patterns.

https://www.google.com/maps/@33.7025523,-117.7852037,289a,35y,90h,39.45t/data=!3m1!1e3

To battle the ocean is to battle the world.

https://www.google.com/maps/place/Frog+House/@33.6275486,-117.9517994,524m/data=!3m1!1e3!4m5!3m4!1s0x80dd2041245b704f:0xabb7a3ec4ad70fc1!8m2!3d33.629146!4d-117.953297

My high school was pretty cool.

From breakfast club:
Each one of us is a super star, basket case, loser

ADL Essence
It's about jobs not queries. Its computation against data. 

No instant gratification. It's more of a data experiment.

Including possibly ML

 
THU NOV 29
----------
Use to check what is hitting such as VPN:
http://checkip.dyndns.org/

76.187.75.X

WED NOV 28
----------
It's OK to say, "I don't know." -- Richard Feynman

"Creativity is intelligence having fun."

-- A. Einstein (1879 - 1955)

Desire to help someone.

TUE NOV 27
----------
[ ] ML
[ ] Podcast

The rachet has turned.

MON NOV 26
----------
ML techniques: pros and cons
https://www.dezyre.com/article/top-10-machine-learning-algorithms/202


SUN NOV 25
----------
Data science
------------
+ is an interdisciplinary field that uses scientific methods, processes, algorithms and systems to extract knowledge and insights from data in various forms, both structured and unstructured, similar to data mining. 

+ is a "concept to unify statistics, data analysis, machine learning and their related methods" in order to "understand and analyze actual phenomena" with data. It employs techniques and theories drawn from many fields within the context of mathematics, statistics, information science, and computer science. 

Some key concepts in data science and ML:
+ Single source of truth
+ Clustering
+ Classifiers/Classification
+ Bayesian logic
+ Reinforcement learning
+ Markov decision process
+ Bayesian belief networks
+ Conditional indepedence
+ The bootstrap method
+ Scoring
    + F1
    + Quality
+ The central limit theorem
+ Sample sizes
+ k nearest neighbors
+ MapReduce
+ Markov chains
+ Ordinary least squares regression
+ k means clustering
+ p-values
+ type i/ type ii errors


[X] Make mindmap

SAT NOV 24
----------
Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool that I've ever encountered to help make the big choices in life. Leaving only what is truely important. - Steve Jobs

FRI NOV 23
----------
Sales can overcome a poorly designed system.

THU NOV 24
----------
Grateful: health, family, interesting work, good communication.

WED NOV 21
----------
U-SQL Presentation

T-SQL Differences
Join: only join using the equality operator (which, remember, is ==, not =) with u-sql
 
Need separate file

TUE NOV 20
----------
How to disagree productively and find common ground

Way to reach people
+ Find common ground
+ Separate ideas from identity
+ Open to experimentation


You are not your idea. Your design. Seems dated.

MON NOV 19
----------
500 Mb per person per day

SUN NOV 18
----------
"Flow" - "Peak performance state"
 
Flow state might be the best metric for managers of knowledge workers
When you enter a flow state, your inner critic goes silent.
 
Most enterprise code seems to interleave queries, business logic, and mutation  -- within the same method.  I bet those that have command processors and events do it a lot less. Or a plan.
 
The problem with OOP: tricky interactions between states of objects.

Videos
------
Mars - National Geographic
Do you trust this computer?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVprGRt39yg&feature=youtu.be&list=PLDxoMMAEmpqQX6z3RFuacWrREmhOXjctE 


SAT NOV 17
----------
Domain Layer (FP) Types as propositions; programs as proofs; misu
Rule Groups (FP) Pricing models, ..; changes together;
Plan Executor (Actions); mutation; dependency; persistence;


Is an command a plan of execution
Plan
    ActionSequence (failure track)
    Result


Vs Event Sourcing
+ The real question: can state be replayed from actions; not necessarily. but could support that model nicely with added principles of.

Simple formula: s -> event -> state

When you interleave planning and acting in imperative code; then you can't ask what if's anymore.
Would be nice to separate the plan from the action. What's the plan? Now execute the plan (or not). 

What abstraction do I like better?
1. Command -> Event -> State (Event Sourcing) -> Result
2. Command -> Plan -> ExecutionResult

One could replay the plan -> result as well as any other deps

Not sure. Maybe they are very close. Can state be duplicated from events? Where are events in 2cd model? In the plan and result? Is that enough for replay? Mostly. Though external system side-effects can't be replayed for either.


CAML originally stood for Categorical Abstract Machine Language

FRI NOV 16
----------
Master of Automation
The advancement of automation and the importance and relevance has been brought to the forefront.
 
The importance of automation for any company. Right below security, automation is the #1 concern of corporations. It is the only way to get efficiency, speed, accuracy, consistent output, and scale what you do.
 
The importance of this message gets taken for granted.
 
Since it is mostly invisible, it's easy for people to not fully understand what's out there already.
 
Automation is mostly invisible. The implication: makes it difficult for people to understand how prevalent it is even today.
 

VS Code
"editor.fontFamily": "Fira Code",
"editor.fontLigatures": true,

THU NOV 15
---------
Scrum (Dave Thomas)
What did you achieve yesterday?
What do you hope to achieve today?
What's in your way?

WED NOV 14
----------
u-sql delivery today.

twitter advanced search:
since: 2018-01-01 until: 2018-11-14

TUE NOV 13
----------
Who you surround yourself with is very important to your success. Key theme after interviewing thousands of highly successful people. Dan Schawbel.  

MON NOV 12
----------
My next game from E3: Tom Clancy's Division 2

SUN NOV 11
----------
fable conf 2018:

SAT NOV 10
----------
A.I. and Cognitive Services Training
https://aischool.microsoft.com/en-us/home

FRI NOV 9
---------
Great piece of code I always forget: 
string.Join(",", unique);

THU NOV 8
---------
What's in it? 

Q: How could I open source my daily journal?
A: we all have to compartmentalize. It is necessary  in daily life. especially in IT. Passwords and even greater things.

About having a brief great conversation

Advice to friend: Feel good about your path, the overall banality of life makes some one like you -- entertaining, compelling, and can speak the kind truth be the easy choice no matter the situation, role, company, or profession that you pursue.


WED NOV 7
---------
Q: How would I help someone with a superiority complex?

A: As Alfred Adler identified, behind every superiority complexity is a hidden inferiority complex. That is where the help is needed. Perhaps, everyone has a degree of inferiority complex in opposition to a visible superiority complex -- like the imposture syndrome in opposition to egotism. Seems healthy to connect because of the benefits of connecting the two are greater than the alternative. 

Give encouragement around their fears. Remind them of their biggest talent; it is far far bigger then worst fear. Be kind. Be concrete. Be authentic/true. Approaching the superiority aspect in almost any way (except kind truth) will create conflict. Imperative rarely.

TUE NOV 6
---------
Faceted classification is a way of organizing things by their relevant properties. Indian librarian S.R. Ranganthan invented in 1930's. He understood that purely hierachical classifcation systems were quite limited.

Clothing Facets as example
    Size: S, M, L, XL
    Material: cotton, wool, rayon, silk
    Color: ...
    Garmet: Shirt, Pants, Dress, ...

Q: Are you concerned about the increase in A.I. capability?
A: No, I'm more concerned about the decrease in human intelligence.

u-sql
-----
Workaround for slow performance and freezes while editing u-sql:
+ at top of editor, select adla account: local-machine

Complains about equijoin int == int?

Even though both are int. Only soln. Make both ?

Could be due to join.

AI
--
https://aischool.microsoft.com/en-us/home
 
MON NOV 5
---------
PEACE: positive energy activates constant elevation

Podcast Template
    Opening 
        + One outrageous statement
    Q

    Deconstruction

    A

    Closing

Podcast Names
    fnDisruption
    Developer Challenge
    function of disruption
    functional development

SUN NOV 4
---------
Azure Data Lake/u-sql Presentation Nov 30

    Why?

    What?

    When?

    How?


SAT NOV 3
---------
Podcast epsisodes: Season 1 (10 epispodes)
+ What and why? help is great way to channel my ego; voice; find my tribe; prepare developers for disruption
+ Screw best practices and dogma
+ Why is software so important?

+ Why is software delivery so painful?
    + 85% wasted tasks
    + Increased complexity
    + Poor operating models
    + Egos
    + Lack of focus
    + Asked to build the wrong thing
+ Remote working vs open area
+ Functional programming
+ Why managing sucks?
+ Digital transformation

Other ideas
+ Flow
+ ML Types
+ Functional programming and patterns



FRI NOV 2
---------
Go Wakeland!

THU NOV 1
---------
SELECT  distinct(len(phone))  as L
  FROM  customer
  where phone is not null
  ORDER BY L

WED OCT 31
----------
"Musicians don't retire; they stop when there's no more music in them."" - Louis Armstrong

TUES OCT 30
-----------
F# Web
+ Fable or ASP.NET core?

Recommendation Systems
    Content-Based Filtering
    Memory-Based Collaborative Filtering
    Model-Based Collaborative Filtering
    Deep Learning / Neural Network

MON OCT 29
----------
Complexity

Accidental and essential complexity. Yes there is essential complexity to any problem/solution, but it seems that most complexity -- maybe 85% -- is accidental.

So, maybe the idea of using simplicity to fight complexity is wrong or not adequate. Just attack accidental complexity and the processes that create it. And operating models. For example, null-ptr, null-ptr, null-ptr checks. By changing this one aspect, could reduce accidental complexity of programs by 25%.  

But wait, maybe that is using simplicity to fight it. I don't know.

https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/box-office-secret-behind-a-record-2018-haul-1152645


SUN OCT 28
----------
The problem with christianity is probably biblical literalism. That is, taking the bible literally and worse extrapolating the words from the bible. Or just taking the parts you want and interpreting the parts to fit your needs.

This is not an attack on religion, but just an attack on a book written by men that has been translated by other men multiple times. Humans are  flawed. So, I don't believe in taking the bible literally, but from a christianity perspective it is all that we have; or is it?

Perhaps, we should look outside the bible to explore and understand God and look to the universe. The universe is huge and all knowing. Perhaps the answer lies in studying it. If God is all knowing, then perhaps God is the universe. Or go the other way, quantum.

But I don't think we'll find anymore answers in the bible even with data science.



Mistakes: use my mistakes to help others. and not repeat them as much myself.

SAT OCT 27
----------
Book list for friend:

Why managing sucks and how to fix it by Cali Ressler and Jody Thompson

Mindset by Carol Dweck
About growth mindset and it’s power; simple idea but helped me a lot

Principles: life and work by Ray Dalio
About culture and decision making

Ego is the enemy by Ryan Holiday
Ego kills projects, teams, relationships, and maybe even bigger things. This one changed me a lot. I’m not quite the egotist that I was.

Getting Naked by Patrick Lencioni
About the trusted advisor model

Scrum by Jeff Sutherland (co-inventor of scrum)
About scrum

The Toyota Way by Jeffrey Liker
Probably best book about lean; I think lean was lost in translation; it should be called focus

Deep Work by Cal Newport
About flow and the ever more valuable ability to focus and do deep work; most people can’t do it anymore

AI Problems
Another problem is that AI experiments often involve humans repeatedly running AI models until they find patterns in data, like the conspiracy theorist who makes spurious correlations between unrelated phenomena because that is what he is looking for. This causes AI experiments to make false inferences from data because machines cannot distinguish correlation from causation, and the more a machine searches for patterns, the more it will find them.

FRI OCT 26
----------
Gamer tag: RT Double Tap

THU OCT 25
----------
Samit gives away the "secret" to disruption, which is looking at yourself differently. If you can change yourself, you can change your business. However, he warns that many people seem to confuse disruption with innovation and that couldn't be further from the truth. If you're looking to be a disruptor, you must apply 'SoLoMo': Social, Local, and Mobile.

WED OCT 24
----------
Find column name in SQL server

SELECT
  sys.columns.name AS ColumnName,
  sys.tables.name AS TableName
FROM
  sys.columns
JOIN sys.tables on sys.columns.object_id = sys.tables.object_id
WHERE
  sys.columns.name = 'language'


TUE OCT 23
----------
Silence bad bosses by leaving them behind.

MON OCT 22
----------
"Having a bad boss isn't your fault. Staying with one is" -- Noral Denzel

SUN OCT 21
----------
David St. Hubbins: It's such a fine line between stupid, and uh... 
Nigel Tufnel: Clever. 

SAT OCT 20
----------
F#. Given a gem of objection by young developer: F# is too hard to read.

Turn into thesis. Why is functional so difficult? 
One answer: there is 7 to 1 in terms of expressive power. The real value: how to understand...
Also. MISU.

Paradigm shift in thinking too. At least as difficult as OO was to procedural.

FRI OCT 19
----------
Billion rows. Need to be effient otherwise feels like killing trees.

Go Wakeland! Fun game. Lucky to play at Star since raining. Proud of Ainse.

THU OCT 18
----------
I feel your pain -- as a developer. There are so many details, estimates, planning, cross references, duplications, failure points, defects, and errors.  

There must be a better way. A better operating model. 

Projects require structure and disipline but ... to what end: a structured failure? 85% of effort is wasted in general.

WED OCT 17
----------
Q: How do you make sure you do the right thing? Even when opposed to meeting timeline. Completing task. Where everything is structured against it. Documents.

For example, with DoD work, it used to be document driven. In other words, you could not change the design for the better due to the impacts to documention.

Q: While things have gotten better, how can process get out of the way for developers? To keep them in the flow of understanding and doing more of the right thing.

I struggle on both sides of it.

Anything?

Common understanding, focus, feedback, motivation, ego is enemy, diversity, 

TUE OCT 16
-----------
Real TDD is almost error driven development. I think it is interesting to think about errors.  

With TDD, you start with an error, then fix it until you have no more errors.

With ML/FP, you try to get most error cases out of your model. And formally model the ones you need.

MON OCT 15
----------
Podcast words: challenge disrupt transparent 

Weekly Q

SUN OCT 14
----------
Perhaps, the first step is to get people open to alternatives. 

SAT OCT 13
----------
Data Mart 2.0

THU OCT 11
----------
H-Factor
Combination of Honesty and Humility

WED OCT 10
----------
Customer Data Platform
---------------------
“a marketer-managed system that creates a persistent, unified customer database that is accessible to other systems.”

can store first, second, and third-party data.

"the heart-beat of modern marketing"

Goal: meet the expectations of every customer by completely understanding and utilizing all of the data about each one.

Provide best offers to customers
Personalize marketing communications
Understand buying behavior
Get closer to customers

TUE OCT 9
---------
It's satisifying to enter RSA key at the buzzer. MFA can be fun.

MON OCT 8
---------
https://www.bing.com/videos/search?q=goto+2018+test+&adlt=strict&view=detail&mid=B006EB11C85C974B71FCB006EB11C85C974B71FC&&FORM=VRDGAR

Test-driven development

Error as a part of the development process
1. Introduce controlled isolated error
2. Eliminate error by writing more code

Error as a medium for information
+ Tests become a specification
+ Tests as honest documention


Errors as a contradition

Errors as the unavoidable

The computer boys take over

Algos prove it's correct

SUN OCT 7
---------
The word 'algorithm' has its roots in Latinizing the name of Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi in a first step to algorismus.[11][12] Al-Khwārizmī (Persian: خوارزمی‎, c. 780–850) was a Persian mathematician, astronomer, geographer, and scholar in the House of Wisdom in Baghdad, whose name means 'the native of Khwarezm', a region that was part of Greater Iran and is now in Uzbekistan.[13][14] 

SAT OCT 6
---------
PoA Manual Install

Create Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS VM
 
Reference: https://arctouch.com/blog/how-to-set-up-ethereum-blockchain/
 
 
VM: authority
 
Runs Ethereum in Proof of Authority mode.
 
Instead 4G, I used 8G.
 
 
RPC
 
Admin
authority
gethadmin/password
 
geth --nodiscover --networkid 42 --datadir .ethereum/ --unlock 0x866858d605f6de031f6c1714de8e48c7838bac05 --mine --rpc --rpcapi eth,net,web3,admin,personal --rpcaddr 10.0.0.4
 
 
Don't forget to allow in NSG. Clients need to be white listed.

FRI OCT 5
---------
Don't eat peas, because they might roll and touch your chicken. 

Or just leave out the chicken and let the peas roll.

THU OCT 4
---------
Data Lake: rolling csv append xaction logs => no delete

WED OCT 3
---------
The problem with append model. No delete. Or at least implication.

TUE OCT 2
---------
u-sql: 

MON OCT 1
----------
Instead of mstsc /span: mstsc.exe /w: /h: So, if your 2 monitors were 1920x1080, you can do this: mstsc.exe /w:3840 /h:1080 

This is from years ago. Extract from previous journal.

SUN SEP 30
----------
Q: What do you do when code seems to defy logic?
A: Very unlikely. It's logic that is the problem.

SAT SEP 29
----------
Q: Do you know what is real? What about in 20 years?
A: By then, I'm sure that most of us will have be fooled or confused with AR. But I hope we know.

Winner winner chicken dinner. pubg.

FRI SEP 28
----------
Fira Code Font
https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode/wiki/VS-Code-Instructions


THUR SEP 27
-----------
Winner winner chicken dinner. pubg.

WED SEP 26
----------
160 year old riemann hypothesis
https://soylentnews.org/article.pl?sid=18/09/22/0212230

https://www.newscientist.com/article/2180406-famed-mathematician-claims-proof-of-160-year-old-riemann-hypothesis

TUE SEP 25
----------
go anywhere. 

MON SEP 24
----------
What is design? The choices you make to your code. The goal: keep development speed high.

SUN SEP 23
----------
PUBG: go 1st person perspective when possible combat in doors

SAT SEP 22
----------
Army is tuff.

FRI SEP 21
----------
Test Approaches
---------------
1. Contract and Collaboration tests
2. Tools approach: rspesc fire
3. Static Typing & Static Mocks
4. Integration Tests

Integration Tests are a scam

Integration Tests: 
- path count
- does not work as a primary testing strategy

Natural Isolation

Each/foreach is a no-op if there is not a bit of destructive code in it

Functional Core, Imperative Shell

a value representation of an action to be taken

Isolated Test / Unit

E' - english without use of "to be"

am/are,was,were,havebeen
I am / We are
You are / You are
He/She/It is / They are

I was / We were

THUR SEP 20
-----------

u-sql
-----
unifies being able to query structured and unstructured data
unifies .dotnet code and sql


WED SEP 19
----------
u-sql
-----
unifies being able to query structured and unstructured data
unifies .dotnet code and sql

u-sql performance model

degree of parallism: when you submit a job. it must be at least 1 for the job to run. 2 for parallelism. range is from 1..50. You are saying reserve that # of containers.

You pay for the time * # of parallelism

Vertexes in each stage are doing the same operation on the same data.

Vertexes in a later stage may depend on a vertex in an earlier stage.

a job has some number of vertices. those vertices
vertices:

TUES SEP 18
-----------
Foundations of design functional design
---------------------------------------
Start with
+ Organization boundaries
+ Use cases and flows
+ Underlying function domains
+ Find areas that change independently
+ Do not start with data model

Short activation paths
+ Balance
    avoid monolith -> clear separation of concerns
    minimize requests -> cluster functionality & data
    caches 


MON SEP 17
----------
New client today

Dependency rejection over dependency injection
http://blog.ploeh.dk/2017/02/02/dependency-rejection/


SUN SEP 16
----------
Hacker movies and docs from the complete list:
Freedom Downtime 2001
Who am I 
Eden Log
Paranoia 1.0 2004
Algorithm
anonymous 2016
Zero Days 2016

https://cybersecurityventures.com/movies-about-cybersecurity-and-hacking/


SAT SEP 15
----------
Escaping velocity notes - doc norton
    what is velocity? some # of work units / unit of time
    once velocity stabilizes metric doesn't help
    velocity is not the goal -- once you put a goal as a metric you invalidate it -- it can produce behaviors you are not looking for
    once you set the target, you change the system
    accumulative flow diagram
    the greatest bottleneck is the only one we need to fix

    trailing indicators don't help looking forward

Use instead
    code quality
    lead time: time between initiation and completion
    cycle time: total time from beginning of proces as defined by you and your customer

developer joy (on commit) - leading indicator -- 0 - 5 indicator on commit that indicates quality of code they just worked on

mercury app by corey hains

healthy delivery


FRI SEP 14
----------
Ethereum raw transactions
https://github.com/ethereum/web3.js/blob/1.0/packages/web3-eth-accounts/src/index.js#L115

https://medium.com/@akshay_111meher/creating-offline-raw-transactions-with-go-ethereum-8d6cc8174c5d

https://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/6893/execute-contract-function-with-raw-transaction

https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JSON-RPC


THUR SEPT 13
------------
/// Implements an extension method that overloads the standard
/// 'Bind' of the 'async' builder. The new overload awaits on 
/// a standard .NET task
type AsyncBuilder with
    member __.Bind(t:Task<'T>, f:'T -> Async<'R>) : Async<'R>  = 
        async.Bind(Async.AwaitTask t, f)

Keccak hash 256

Where did JsonWebKeySignatureAlgorithm.ECDSA256 go? Just use "ECDSA256"

Notes from Kent Beck
--------------------
Development is a social process. Once a week we get together to plan out what we want to get done for the week.  

Characterization Lab at Facebook

explore expand extract

3 styles at Facebook
1. 
2.
3.

The kind of game if you don't play then you are losing.

Focused on predicting 

When you receive feedback how much of is it about me and what is about them?

Things are horrible!

Compared to what?
-----------------

  

WED SEP 12
----------
New iPhones today at 12 cst

Billions in the news:
Apple has shipped 2 Billion iOS devices since it was launched (mentioned in launch today).
Last year, 3+ billion credentials were compromised (mentioned in Tues's "Security Now" but lots of info out there) 

About to deliver complex proj on time; took focus and deep work and time.

"Thinking you know exactly where you're going is a lack of humility that doesn't let you invent" - Amazon.com 's Jeff Bezos 

TUES SEP 11
-----------
17 years. It gave me: life over money.

Q: What does FP abstract out of the sphere of concern?
Understanding memory state. The number of states that only 6 integers (32 bit) can represent is larger than the number of atoms in the visible universe. If you want to test all the states that your program can be in, then it is going to take a very long time. And null-pointers and all the checks for fp languages that support more of an ML type system such as F#, OCaml, .

MON SEP 10
----------
Managed Service Identity

"Most problems are bogus because they are come out of the current context; we are trying to get beyond the current context so forget about problem solving. It is just a bad heuristic. It is the last thing you do." - Alan Kay

MON SEP 10
----------
Q: What is most significant outcome of async programming patterns (async/await) for example?
R: Abstacts time from our sphere of concern.


SUN SEP 9
---------
Q: Am I doing the right thing? 
A: Now that is the right question.

Transducing means transforming with reduction.

sphere of concern

SAT SEP 8
---------
Javascript Functional Programming Fx
    Ramda: General FP Utilities
    Sanctuary: Ramda Companion for FP Types
    lodash/fp: General FP Utilities
    functional.js: General FP Utilities
    Immutable: Immutable Data Structures
    Mori: (ClojureScript Inspired) Immutable Data Structures
    Seamless-Immutable: Immutable Data Helpers
    transducers-js: Transducers
    monet.js: Monadic Types

Do it right the first time is a seductive notion, but mostly impossible because you do not have the necessary future knowledge.

FRI SEP 7
---------
Gource
"c:\Program Files\Gource\gource.exe" -s 2 --camera-mode track --user-image-dir c:\source\GourceImages --loop --logo c:\source\GourceImages\Quisitive.png

THUR SEP 6
----------
Naked Consulting Notes

Principles
+ Tell the kind truth and don't be afraid to enter the danger
+ 

3 Fears that sabatoage client loyalty

1. Fear of losing business -- either in sales cycle or during
    Giving away the business
    Don't apologize for the fee 
2. Fear of looking stupid (intellectual courage)
3. Fear of feeling inferior (ego)
    not needing to be the center of attention
    principles 
        1: take bullet for the client
        2: make everything about the client 
        3: honor the client's work
        4: do the dirty work

Never pretend to know more than you do. Admit it's done.

Taking a bullet

Pride gets in the way of honesty

WED SEP 5
---------
How to get to Enterprise Apps: Home-> AD -> Enterprise Apps

TUES SEP 4
----------
Interesting aspects to share:
    CosmosDB: no skip()
    Ethereum Spam
    KeyVault
    Nethereum.Generator
    Ethereum PoA instance (4-8G)

MON SEP 3
---------
If your goal is reduced dependencies then D.I. is probably not the answer. From a dependency perspective, you can't get less than depending on a function signature as opposed to an interface or worse an implementation with multiple methods and dependencies. Instead of depending on a simple signature, now you depend on everything in the interface and its dependencies. 

O.O. uses classes/objects to compose the app. Functional uses functions to compose the app. 

Why does one something need to be referenced only to inject global variables into it.   


Perhaps, D.I. is needed when dealing with object-oriented archs. It helps deal with separating signature from implementation. 

Functional approaches you generally pass hof rather than a dependency to use later.

SUN SEP 2
---------
6 Commits yesterday. 0 today.

131
83
U+0192
ƒ

SAT SEP 1
---------
        Uri CreateCollectionUri() => UriFactory.CreateDocumentCollectionUri(DatabaseId, CollectionId);

        Uri CreateDocumentUri(string address) => UriFactory.CreateDocumentUri(DatabaseId, CollectionId, address);

FRI AUG 31
----------
You ain't allowed to see D. 


BDD. 12 Commits today. 14 previous.

Key Vault: good link
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/about-keys-secrets-and-certificates#BKMK_KeyTypes

Rivest-Shamir-Adleman 

https://tomislav.tech/2018-01-31-ethereum-keyvault-generating-keys/
X and Y represent the points on the curve. Value D represents the private key in JWK format, but D is never returned. We will need the public key to derive the Ethereum address and later to find the recovery id during the process of signing.

The output of Keccak is 64 byte hash (32 hex characters). The address is obtained by taking the last 40 bytes (20 hex chars) and prefixing it with 0x for a total of 42 bytes. Here are the full details of the EIP-150 spec for Ethereum.

THUR AUG 30
-----------
Consider proxy approach for access contract:
https://blog.gnosis.pm/solidity-delegateproxy-contracts-e09957d0f201

Or storage for each access. 

WED AUG 29
----------
Nethereum.Generator  
When targeting 3.0.0-rc1, you have to rename MessageBase to FunctionMessage.

In high-stake contexts like fintech, sometimes you need to take more than one countermeasure per threat -- to handle misconfiguration or compromise scenarios. In this case, it looks like not a single countermeasure was taken for unauthorized access. If you are a developer, you've likely seen it and done it. 

https://krebsonsecurity.com/2018/08/fiserv-flaw-exposed-customer-data-at-hundreds-of-banks/

https://bcfocus.com/news/recent-transaction-spam-on-the-ethereum-network-cost-up-to-15-million-vitalik-buterin/18560/

TUES AUG 28
-----------
With blockchain, Proof of Work is burning billions of dollars per year since it requires gas/electricity/computation/currency to cover the transactional costs. Evidentally, this would be more than all traditional scams and thefts combined especially if deployed as a replacement. Of course, CC actually charge the vendor 3% for a transaction -- a significant fee so one could argue that blockchain could be a lot cheaper when applied to currency. There is likely something better than both.

https://bcfocus.com/news/recent-transaction-spam-on-the-ethereum-network-cost-up-to-15-million-vitalik-buterin/18560/

What are the centralized risks in proof of stake?
Leads to a small group of whales. Similar to what happened to bitcoin.

Decay at end of minable coins could lead to crash. Bitmain as example.

MON AUG 27
----------
Solidity Address: 20 bytes. But in a 256 byte slot.

SUN AUG 26
----------
10 commits. CosmosDB. 

SAT AUG 25
----------  
Hubs are prepped and set.

FRI AUG 24
----------
Never been easier to leverage AI, ML, Blockchain, and IoT.

The key: know why, how, and when to push the button.

nuget package explorer
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/nuget-package-explorer/9wzdncrdmdm3?rtc=1&activetab=pivot%3aoverviewtab

Per project: References->Nuget dictates what packages are referenced and restored. But, as Eastrall mentioned, the packages folder is now global and located in your user folder: C:\Users\[YourUsername]\.nuget\packages

https://github.com/Azure/Azure-Functions/issues/805

THUR AUG 23
-----------
Solidity: function modifier
the _; in a modifier represents the function to be executed. so like we thought it continues execution but its not really a return; it's the actual function.

https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/thank-you/dotnet-sdk-2.1.401-windows-x64-installer

WED AUG 22
----------
Why blockchain?
Non repudiation. 
{story}
Legal: Non-repudiation refers to a situation where a statement's author cannot successfully dispute its authorship or the validity of an associated contract.

CS:
A service that provides proof of the integrity and origin of data.
An authentication that can be said to be genuine with high confidence.

Why is it a problem? Many orgs operate that way. CRUD vs transactional. Story.

Explain the diff: update the balance vs add an adjustment transaction.

How do you get non-repudiation?
Non repudiation using block chain: the transactions are sequencially added to the chain based on time. and cryptographically sealed.
Common understanding. Please feel free to challenge or ask questions...

Ethereum
Block chain: about non repudiation

Proof of Authority vs proof of work; 

Proof of work requires gas; ether; a currency for the computation

We are using proof of authority; it requires far less servers and electricity


Proof of authority uses parties or subset of parties involved in contract

Double Spend
One major obstacle to overcome is what, in Bitcoin terms, is called a “double-spend attack”: What happens if two transactions exist in the network that both want to empty an account, a so-called conflict?

The abstract answer to this is that you do not have to care. An order of the transactions will be selected for you, the transactions will be bundled into what is called a “block” and then they will be executed and distributed among all participating nodes. If two transactions contradict each other, the one that ends up being second will be rejected and not become part of the block.

It would get rejected. I'll show how we use modifiers to reject for other reasons in the smart contract.

As part of the “order selection mechanism” (which is called “mining”) it may happen that blocks are reverted from time to time, but only at the “tip” of the chain. The more blocks that are added on top, the less likely it is. So it might be that your transactions are reverted and even removed from the blockchain, but the longer you wait, the less likely it will be.

It's cryptographically sealed

In Ethereum,
There are two kinds of accounts that share the same space:
1. Actors: External accounts that are controlled by public-private key pairs (i.e. humans) 
2. Contracts: contract accounts which are controlled by the code stored together with the account.

The address of an external account is determined from the public key while the address of a contract is determined at the time the contract is created (it is derived from the creator address and the number of transactions sent from that address, the so-called “nonce”).


We don't have to 

Run in Ethereum VM (EVM) Smart Contracts written in Solidity
Stack based, immutable data, functional

Q: What is blockchain?
A: These blocks form a linear sequence in time and that is where the word “blockchain” derives from. Blocks are added to the chain in rather regular intervals - for Ethereum this is roughly every 17 seconds.

TUES AUG 21
-----------
Q: Is it just too easy to over-design infrastructure with the cloud (Azure and AWS) since it can be just a push a button?
A: Yeah. Now in a day you can create infrastructure that would have taken weeks traditionally which is fantastic, but that doesn't mean you should deploy every technology you can. What happens when you need to change it.

0,120,215

MON AUG 20
----------
Q: What is the right question?
A: You know it when you see it, but there is something more. 

Solidity Events:
Events are just like normal instance variables of a contract, they can be inherited like any variable. Events are used to return values to the client in case a list of values is to be returned, but we will only examine them as a means to create logs on the blockchain. Events when they are “fired” from a part of the blockchain with the parameters that are supplied to them.

SUN AUG 19
----------
Q: What if there is no dark matter?

Q: Should an expert/consultant have all the answers almost all of the time?
A: Unlikely to be an advantage long-term. Do you want to be trusted advisor or cheeseball that knows-it-all? Learn it all not know-it-all. BC love the process.

SAT AUG 18
----------
Contract migration pattern.

Context: Block Chain

Since block chain code cannot ever be modified once deployed, provide ability to migrate out of contract into new one.



FRI AUG 17
----------
Proof-of-Authority is a replacement for Proof-of-Work, which can be used for private chain setups. It does not depend on nodes solving arbitrarily difficult mathematical problems, but instead uses a set of “authorities” - nodes that are explicitly allowed to create new blocks and secure the blockchain.

THUR AUG 16
-----------
From whiteboard:
Pure templative controllable automated technology.

Principles of mathematical evaluation and reduction.


WED AUG 15
----------
Q: How do you improve a team's focus, flow, and understanding of a problem to be solved?
where flow is the action or fact of moving along in a steady, continuous stream; seems that just about every aspect of software development can benefit by getting in this state at least as individuals.

A: It's definitely possible to improve focus and understanding. Flow is a state. It is possible not to just squeeze out a few more % but to improve doubling or tripling -- at least in regard to thought work. The myth of multi-tasking.

Genesis file
A genesis file is the file used to initialize the blockchain. The very first block, called the genesis block, is crafted based on the parameters in the genesis.json file.

TUES AUG 14
-----------
Q: Do you always make sure that developers are fully tasked? Is that what makes your org produce more with better results?

Don't optimize development resources. Optimize focus, flow and understanding to the left of the check-in and for repeatability to the right. There is also evidence from Lean manufacturing that keeping key resources 100% utilized will actually slow you down -- counter intuitive.

MON AUG 13
----------
Quisitive is now publicly traded.

 
According to the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, an evidence-based review showed that a vegetarian diet is associated with a lower risk of death from ischemic heart disease. Vegetarians appear to have lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, lower blood pressure and lower rates of hypertension and type 2 diabetes than meat eaters. Vegetarians also tend to have a lower body mass index, lower overall cancer rates and lower risk of chronic disease.

SUN AUG 12
----------
How to bet on emerging architectures and technologies

SAT AUG 11
----------
Got keyvault servce working. Woot.

FRI AUG 10
----------
Q: Do you like wit?  

A: Definitely.

Q: Is ignorance bliss?
A: Definitely not.


I feel like i've always had a growth mindset -- really living it; learning a ton; humble and mostly happy.

THUR AUG 9
----------

You can't have everything at once.

https://material-ui.com/


WED AUG 8
---------
Q: Does your organization try to optimize it's development resources? Is that a good thing?

Don't optimize development resources. Optimize focus, flow and understanding to the left of the check-in and for repeatability to the right. There is also evidence from Lean manufacturing that keeping key resources 100% utilized will actually slow you down -- counter intuitive.

Nothing in the agile manifesto that you have


“Interesting things happen along borders – transitions – not in the middle where everything is the same.” – Neal Stephenson 
hashtag
#DigitalTransformation

"Success is intoxicating, yet to sustain it requires sobriety." - Ryan Holiday. So, build a system around the work, not yourself.


TUES AUG 7
----------
Saying it is a best practice so we need it is like saying we need it because it is a design pattern. which i believe has been said quite a bit.

MON AUG 6
---------
Principles behind the Agile Manifesto


We follow these principles: 
Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer
through early and continuous delivery
of valuable software. 

Welcome changing requirements, even late in 
development. Agile processes harness change for 
the customer's competitive advantage. 

Deliver working software frequently, from a 
couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a 
preference to the shorter timescale. 

Business people and developers must work 
together daily throughout the project. 

Build projects around motivated individuals. 
Give them the environment and support they need, 
and trust them to get the job done. 

The most efficient and effective method of 
conveying information to and within a development 
team is face-to-face conversation. 

Working software is the primary measure of progress. 
Agile processes promote sustainable development. 

The sponsors, developers, and users should be able 
to maintain a constant pace indefinitely. 

Continuous attention to technical excellence 
and good design enhances agility. 

Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount 
of work not done--is essential. 

The best architectures, requirements, and designs 
emerge from self-organizing teams. 

At regular intervals, the team reflects on how 
to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts 
its behavior accordingly. 

To Gabriel:
Thanks Gabriel. I hope you are doing well.

The main point: a bunch of best practices won't lead you to a great system -- likely not even to a good one. Why not follow all the best practices if they are best. We wouldn't blindly follow all the design patterns we could find -- not without proper context which would rule out almost all.

With all the tech and possibilities, it is just too easy to get off the rails. One time, I saw a solution with over 100 VS projects and couldn't demonstrate a single use-case such as sign-in yet, but they had dependency injection, shared kernel, T4s, subdomains, etc. It was quite a thing.

You probably have some stories... 

Oh. Ironically, I do actually follow some best practices.


SUN AUG 5
---------
Best practices -- a logical basis for overdesigned systems.

I think there is a lot of pivoting going on too.

https://medium.com/fndisruption/screw-best-practices-and-dogma-8b3b074afe42

SAT AUG 4
---------
Grateful for my daughter.

FRI AUG 3
---------
Starting new BlockChain project. My second one.

THUR AUG 2
----------
Ping-pong and programming go together.

WED AUG 1
---------
IOT Hub delivers events and commands in both directions -- the key differentiator


TUES JULY 31
------------
18-year-old Ewin Tang has proven that classical computers can solve the “recommendation problem” nearly as fast as quantum computers.
http://bit.ly/2OyROoL

"Recommendation Problem"

MON JULY 30
-----------
 "Passive Rescue Wish." You internally hope something will be given to you, but you do not actually communicate what you need.


SUN JULY 29
-----------
Q: Why do I like to seek time with people other than my own age? Younger or older.

A: Because many middle-aged people have a complex and egotistical self-narrative. It can be banal and exhausting. 


SAT JULY 28
-----------
Ionide 3.24.2

http://websharper.com/

F#
--
dotnet new -i WebSharper.Templates
dotnet new websharper-web -n xyz.Web -lang F#

FRI JULY 27
-----------
Remember to include all needed contracts into contract that represents dapp and corresponding json for workbench. If not it says you need to add it, but not there.

THUR JULY 26
------------
You can't concatenate strings in Solidity yet. Just avoiding for now.

WED JULY 25
-----------
For rich rich preachers, "It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God" - Matthew 19:23-26

"No drug, not even alcohol, causes the fundamental ills of society. If we're looking for the source of our troubles, we shouldn't test people for drugs, we should test them for stupidity, ignorance, greed, and love and power." - P.J. O'Rourke

TUES JULY 24
------------
Great questions to ask

What makes you feel good? 
What makes you feel most useful?
What are you good at doing?
What creates a sense of forward momentum?
What do you enjoy?
How do you best relate to others?

"Whenever you are a threat, you are a target." - James Altucher

MON JULY 23
-----------
I, originally, thought that game theory was the study of games -- probably from watching "War Games" where it had checkers, chess, tic-tac-toe, and global thermal nuclear war as options in the movie. The first three are more computational models -- all the info is on the board. The last one is the only one that has game theory applied.  

Defn: Game theory: the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-makers. Game theory is mainly used in economics, political science, and psychology, as well as in logic and computer science. Originally, it addressed zero-sum games, in which one person's gains result in losses for the other participants. Today, game theory applies to a wide range of behavioral relations, and is now an umbrella term for the science of logical decision making in humans, animals, and computers.

SUN JULY 22
-----------
Don't add D.I. to IoT.

SAT JULY 21
-----------
Solidity Storage
Each account has a persistent memory area which is called storage. Storage is a key-value store that maps 256-bit words to 256-bit words. It is not possible to enumerate storage from within a contract and it is comparatively costly to read and even more so, to modify storage. A contract can neither read nor write to any storage apart from its own.

FRI JULY 18
-----------
PUBG: Winner winner chicken dinner. 14 kills. SpecialSkilz.

THUR JULY 19
------------
[ ] Add to fn medium pub.

WED JULY 18
-----------
ego can suffocate your baby

TUES JULY 17
------------
Back biting Triple Filter Test (OR)
1. Is it true
2. Is it good
3. Is it useful

is it true || is it good || is it useful

rudeness, yelling, conflict
or worse (from business perspective): disengagement with perpetuating conflict; death spiral;

if all else fails, hang out with the interns and new hires. they're not corrupted yet. and they have great ideas.

MON JULY 16
-----------
Q: How do you pay for your contract to get executed?
A: Gas.

Reduces DDoS attack. Since they have to pay.

Smart Contracts
Calling a web-service is a no-no

Solidity

Storage vs memory
storage: refers to vars stored permanetly on the blockchain.
memory: vars are temp and are reased between external function calls

They're implied. storage when decalred in contract; memory when declared in function



SUN JULY 15
-----------
Next book: thinking in bets by Annie Duke; 

15k steps.

ba·nal·i·ty
[bəˈnalədē]

NOUN
the fact or condition of being banal; unoriginality.

SAT JULY 14 
-----------
Remote: office note required notes

The office can be "Interruption Factory"

A busy office is like a food processor. It chops your day into tiny bits. 15 minutes. 30 minutes there. Interruptions. it's incredibly hard to get meaningful work done when your day gets chopped up into little pieces.

Commuting research:
Long commutes: make you fat, stressed and miserable
Event short commutes stab at your history
Neck and back pain
Obesity
Divorce
Communiting is associated  


FRI JULY 13
-----------
https://solidity.readthedocs.io

THUR JULY 12
------------
NO SINGLE FACTOR HAS MORE IMPACT ON EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT THAN “CLEARLY DEFINED GOALS THAT ARE WRITTEN DOWN AND SHARED FREELY.”
—DELOITTE REVIEW, 2015

Non-violent communication by Marshal Rosenberg

Nonviolent Communication holds that most conflicts between individuals or groups arise from miscommunication about their human needs, due to coercive or manipulative language that aims to induce fear, guilt, shame, etc. These "violent" modes of communication, when used during a conflict, divert the attention of the participants away from clarifying their needs, their feelings, their perceptions, and their requests, thus perpetuating the conflict.

Assumptions
Two NVC trainers characterize the assumptions underlying NVC as follows:
All human beings share the same needs
Our world offers sufficient resources for meeting everyone's basic needs
All actions are attempts to meet needs
Feelings point to needs being met or unmet
All human beings have the capacity for compassion
Human beings enjoy giving
Human beings meet needs through interdependent relationships
Human beings change
Choice is internal
The most direct path to peace is through self-connection

Intentions
The trainers also say that practicing NVC involves having the following intentions:
Open-hearted living
Self-compassion
Expressing from the heart
Receiving with compassion
Prioritizing connection
Moving beyond "right" and "wrong" to using needs-based assessments
Choice, responsibility, peace
Taking responsibility for our feelings
Taking responsibility for our actions
Living in peace with unmet needs
Increasing capacity for meeting needs
Increasing capacity for meeting the present moment
Sharing power (partnership)
Caring equally for everyone's needs
Using force minimally and to protect rather than to educate, punish, or get what we want without agreement

What? 
Non-violent communication is language that helps us to connect to others and ourselves. Not only language, but strategies for influecing one another

Purpose:

Method:
1. What's alive with you? Get rid of enemy images of people when they don't do something you like.
2. How can we make the world more wonderful?
3. What are our feelings and needs? Are they being met. When they are being met we are happy; when not, painful.
4. If not being met, what could make life better. 
5. Offer as a gift, not a demand


WED JULY 11
-----------
The meta: why what how

**Measure what matters by John Doerr**

OKR

Objectives and Key Results

Ideas are easy -- executing is everything

S -
I -
M -
P
L
E

Share OKRs with whole team and grade

Don't use for bonuses -- use for common vision

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L4N1q4RNi9I

The secret of success: the right goals

Right goals for the right reasons

It almost doesn't matter what you know, executing is what matters. Andy Grove - paraphrased

Yes. No. Simple.

Most of us are not setting goals at all. How do you do it?

1st: ask the question why?
2cd: 

Objectives: what

Key Results: how

Good results: specific and time bound; aggressive yet realistic; measurable & veriiables

TUES JULY 10
------------
[Why managers are always a bad idea](https://www.intheblack.com/articles/2018/07/01/why-managers-bad-idea)

**Notes**

Is your company addicted to serving hierarchies, or getting things done? 
The problem with the chain of command is that, while it enhances the power of the manager, it fails to serve the company.

While it is incredible dumb, most companies continue to allow managers to exist, slow things down, and gum up the works with power struggles and politics, in the face of simple logic that says they don’t add value. 

In the lattice organisation, there are no managers, or inboxes and outboxes at multiple levels, or politics and departmental fiefdoms to wade through.

Bill Gore, co-inventor of Gore-Tex and founder of the US$3.3 billion company W.L. Gore & Associates, understood the idea implicitly and built his entire company around self-managed teams and the absence of managers of any kind. In 1976, he published a simple paper called The Lattice Organization that described how a company of any size (Gore has 10,200 staff) could run much better without managers. He expressed the simplicity of an organisation designed around the lattice concept with an illustration.

The message: collaborate with whomever you need to, whenever you need to, without ever going through a manager to get to anyone.

To avoid bureaucracy and to reach for that doubling of human capabilities, the company uses the lattice, which has these characteristics:
No fixed or assigned authority;
Sponsors, not bosses;
Natural leadership defined by followership;
Person-to-person communication;
Objectives set by those who must make them happen; and
Tasks and functions organized through commitments.

MON JULY 9
----------
Legacy IT is not a bottleneck for Digital Transformation. Legacy thinking is. 

Life 3.0

Q: Do we see interactions become more transactional and less based on relationships -- in general?
A:



4211 Bryan Street, Dallas, TX

SUN JULY 8
----------
[MIT A.I. Course 6.034](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-034-artificial-intelligence-fall-2010/lecture-videos/)

[ ] Life 3.0 Notes
[ ] It's alive notes
[ ] Smart enough systems notes

SAT JULY 7
----------
Q: Do you have a problem you haven't solved?
A: Given billions of possible outcomes, realize that there are probably millions of solutions that you have overlooked.

Q: Can leadership that spends most of it's time protecting itself be effective?
A: Yes. Proof-by-existence.

FRI JULY 6
----------
Q: Can decoupled code be written without dependency injection?
A: Of course. Pure functions. In fact, you can't have d.i. and have pure functions.

Q: Does D.I. hurt more than it helps? 
A: Generally. Needs a whole write-up. What? Why? D.I. seems to have the opposite of intended effect.

Too many dependencies. Unneeded dependencies. More clutter. More ways to fail.

"A primary cause of complexity is that software vendors uncritically adopt almost any feature that users want."- Niklaus Wirth

Passing booleans seems wrong. Especially if same one or more than one.

THUR JULY 5
-----------
Texoma: fireworks and boating. They do mix. Wonderful. Go again. Not far.


WED JULY 4
----------
Mocks are a functional programming code smell. Perhaps, more general.

Q: How to find integration tests?

A: Take a set of green test cases, then disable networking, if they still work then they're likely unit tests. (still could be hitting local resources though but simple answer).

TUES JULY 3
-----------
We are usuaully taught the game of life -- not the way of life.

Q: What are the two types of test coverage?
A:
1. Code coverage: how much of the code is exercised, and
2. Case coverage: how many of the use-cases are covered by the test suites

MON JULY 2
----------

James Altucher notes

Worry never solves the future and always takes away ENERGY from the present.

Rules for dealing with haters
-----------------------------

1. It's about them
a. Anger is just fear indulged
2. It's also really is about you
a. Maybe it's not so horrific but it was a trigger
3. The 24 hr rule
4. The 30/30/30 rule: 305 love/ 305 don't care / 305 hate you
5. Delete
6. Hate is contagious
7. You'll never know
8. Resistance is futile
9. They look stupid having sex
10. Time heals all wounds

Death by meetings
-----------------

I’m religiously against having meetings. I think 99.9% of meetings don’t result in the few things they are supposed to result in:
A) Money for everyone involved
B) Productive followups that lead to “A” above

In each of the below meetings I have three goals:
A) Figure out how I can make more money
B) Figure out how I can increase my knowledge over a topic important to me
C) Eat good food. Get to know some people better

SUN JULY 1
----------
Amplify your strengths and keep your weaknesses in check.

SAT JUN 30
----------
Tag, the movie, was fun.

FRI JUN 29
----------
My future: A.I. and Automation

Q: Will functional programming be the next paradigm shift? 

A: likely. same training needs as oo. consulting, etc.


The thing about war: both sides have to believe that they're the good guys.

THUR JUN 28
-----------
I desire intensity without insanity or too much chaos.

Business <-> Mission <-> People

Be radically transparent about business and mission to people whenever possible. Beware when mission is not clear or bad.

Do the dead only know one thing? 

WED JUN 27
----------
"You can be old at 30 or young at 90 - it's up to you." - T. Boone Pickens

TUES JUN 26
-----------
From a financial perspective you are now in heaven;

MON JUN 25
----------
Big O
http://bigocheatsheet.com/


SUN JUN 24
----------
Ocean's 8. Just ok.

SAT JUN 23
----------
Self-driving enterprise. 

A.I. is more an evolution on automation -- in almost all cases.

FRI JUN 22
----------
Q: Why don't saunas sell well in Texas?

A: Days like this.



Q: Can you trust data from sensors?

A: No. Makes automation scary especially driverless cars. Circuit breaker. MISU.


Got #2 at PUBG solo. Got every top 10 position solo. Need to improve shooting to score better.

THUR JUN 21
-----------
Q: Is purely functional code easier to refactor than OO code?

A: It's easier to test because it is by definition in isolation. Actually refactoring is probably easier too, but I'm more worried about changes not refactoring. Refactoring simply maintains existing behavior while improving shape of system.


Q: Is functional programming easier to adapt to requirement changes than OOP?

A: Probably depends on the design. But you probably don't reach the limit of understanding -- i.e. able to grok the state change that imperative code can have can be limiting. The what-if's you get with FP and the testability. MISU.


WED JUN 20
----------
Q: What goes together best with A.I.?

A: Automation. Some same patterns are used such as Circuit Breaker. Optimization.


TUES JUN 19
-----------
Q: What is better term than Artificial Intelligence (A.I.)? It isn't artificial just different. Blame Minskey and crew.

A: Intelligent Systems. Augmented Intelligence. Amplified Intelligence. Cognitive Services.


MON JUN 18
----------
Optimizations going well.

Season 2 West World should be better.

SAT JUN 16
----------
Got to see Dad for father's day and some of his friends. Very nice. 

FRI JUN 15
----------
Q: Does miltary style work for development?

A: Seems like wasteful expensive model to copy. Group performance is associated with diversity and having a say. Commander barking orders doesn't seem inclusive or good for feedback. Also, could give justification for toxic leadership which is also commonly known as culture killer. 

It enhances the power of the manager, it fails to serve the company. True for command and control hierachical orgs.

Need references to culture killer. 

Mindset by Carol Dewyk
No Asshole Rule by 
Principles by Ray Dalio
HBR Study about group performance.


THUR JUN 14
-----------
Q: What is clarity?

A: Clarity: Don't ever let your value system become so complex that you can't clearly know yourself.  

I've codified the buy.

WED JUN 13
----------
Q: Why is decision making so important?

A: We're all just one bad decision away from disaster.


Q: Why isn't decision making more formal?
A: Is it bc everyone thinks they're right.

TUES JUN 12
-----------
Don't waste the pain. 


MON JUN 11
----------
Clarity.  


SUN JUN 10
----------
PUBG and 4 mile walk.

How to Cook a Grenade in PUBG (Xbox)
To cook grenades in PUBG on the Xbox instead, you need to do the following:
Select the Grenade by pressing Right on the D-Pad.
Press and hold the Right Trigger to remove the pin and show the red THROW trajectory preview (OR Press and hold the Left Trigger to roll the grenade instead).
Cook the Grenade by pressing the Left Button.
The 5-second timer has started. Release the Right Trigger to throw (OR the Left Trigger to roll) the grenade!

SAT JUN 9
---------
Q: What do I want?

A: Better projects; better focus; better leadership. 

FRI JUN 8
---------
Got 1st on PUBG for 1st time solo.

THUR JUN 7
----------
If you keep following or giving the advice: don't worry we will fix it later. Worry will find you sooner than later.    

WED JUN 6
---------
The number of states that only 6 integers (32 bit) can represent is larger than the number of atoms in the visible universe. If you want to test all the states that your program can be in, then it is going to take a very long time. 

TUES JUN 5
----------
GitHub is now a hub for azure.

taiichi ohno, father of lean manufacturing, said that emotional waste is the worst kind. 

Most of the time 10X is a thought experiment. Not with my client today.

Funny comments:
I have some ideas to help tomorrow.

None of them involve generating a new resume.

Taiichi Ohno, father of lean manufacturing, said that emotional waste is the worst kind.

So don't waste the pain.


MON JUN 4
---------
Failure: git failed with a fatal error.early eofthe remote end hung up unexpectedlyindex-pack failedrpc failed; curl 18 transfer closed with outstanding read data remaining

Resolution:
git config --global core.compression 0
 
git clone --depth 1 <repo_URI>
When that works, go into the new directory and retrieve the rest of the clone: 
git fetch --unshallow 
or, alternately, 
git fetch --depth=2147483647
Now, do a regular pull: 
git pull --all
I think there is a glitch with msysgit in the 1.8.x versions that exacerbates these symptoms, so another option is to try with an earlier version of git (<= 1.8.3, I think). 

SUN JUN 3
---------
Q: Why vaguely assign blame or to motivate? 

A: Could be driven by some kind of bias like Character Attribution Error.

SAT JUN 2
---------
Simple things at the right time.

FRI JUN 1
---------
Time off!

(How North Korea's Hackers Became Dangerously Good)[https://www.wsj.com/articles/how-north-koreas-hackers-became-dangerously-good-1524150416]

Q: Do U.S. hackers show up for a contest like this?

A: No and my guess is that the answer goes much deeper.

THUR MAY 31
-----------
Keep doing the right things until your death for the people you love.

WED MAY 30
----------
Simply one must move past the lizard brain, monkey mind, and ego to begin to ponder the next state of mind. Enlightenment cannot be achieved by the need to feel important (dewey).

Wow. This combines some different thoughts. Mostly psychological.

TUES MAY 29
-----------
Substrate Independence is a term used to denote how the Mind is a dynamic process and is not tied to a specific set of atoms as the body replaces them often. By understanding that process it is one day hoped that it can be transfered to a more durable configuration other than proteins. Once this has happens the mind would be capable of traveling within a computer network. 

Substrate (biology), the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the surface or medium on which an organism grows or is attached 

MON MAY 28
----------
Memorial day. Smoked brisket. PUGB. 

SUN MAY 27
----------
PUGB Tips
+ Only shoot when within range
+ Loot first, shoot later

SAT MAY 26
----------
Q: Curved monitors good for writing code?
A: Likely. Great developers probably don't need much more than VI or notepad, but it helps to have great gear in a competitive world where you go to deliver high value.

I want to try. It's cheap $159 per monitor: https://www.google.com/search?q=Sceptre+27"+Curved+75Hz+LED+Monitor+C278W-1920R&oq=Sceptre+27"+Curved+75Hz+LED+Monitor+C278W-1920R 

FRI MAY 25
----------
"Do you every feel like your parents only see you as an extension of their own ego and have no regard for your personal happiness as an autonomous being." - Dude Netflix 2017?

THUR MAY 24
-----------

Bill of Materials
20 Monitors
20 6 ft HDMI cables
? USB 3 docking stations

Monitor Requirements: 1080p/HDMI is sweet spot for ubiquity, support, need, and cost; UI or graphics designer could need better
    1080p
    HDMI connector
    Mountable
    27"
    Good reviews on amazon, best buy
    Nice to have: thin bezel (since dual)

Connectors
    20 HDMI 6 ft

Cabling

Candidates
$226 Brand: ASUS Model: VN279QL Name: ASUS VN279QL 27" Full HD 1920x1080 DisplayPort HDMI VGA Ergonomic Monitor 
https://www.shi.com/Products/ProductDetail.aspx?SHISystemID=ShiCommodity&ProductIdentity=27632514&contshop=1&SDIMResults=ctgy3:'Hardware%20%3E%20Monitors%20and%20Projectors%20%3E%20Monitors/Displays'&searches=VN279QL%3b&sort=BestMatch&offset=0&recsperpg=20&EventID=052a5794-aa48-444e-ace5-0183bed80ad8

$157 HP V273a - LED monitor - Full HD (1080p) - 27"
https://www.shi.com/Products/ProductDetail.aspx?SHISystemID=ShiCommodity&ProductIdentity=34277180&contshop=1&SDIMResults=ctgy3:'Hardware%20%3E%20Monitors%20and%20Projectors%20%3E%20Monitors/Displays';diag_sz:[27,1000};proj_intfc:'HDMI'&sort=BestMatch&offset=0&recsperpg=20&EventID=48fe7152-4755-464d-90c0-ec2ce0c0731a

$299 Dell P2717H - LED monitor - 27" (27" viewable) - 1920 x 1080 Full HD (1080p) - IPS - 300 cd/m² - 1000:1 - 6 ms - HDMI, VGA, DisplayPort - black
https://www.shi.com/Products/ProductDetail.aspx?SHISystemID=ShiCommodity&ProductIdentity=32217399&contshop=1&SDIMResults=ctgy3:'Hardware%20%3E%20Monitors%20and%20Projectors%20%3E%20Monitors/Displays';diag_sz:[27,1000};proj_intfc:'HDMI'&sort=BestMatch&offset=0&recsperpg=20&EventID=48fe7152-4755-464d-90c0-ec2ce0c0731a

Notable Mention
Notable mention (especially for price); probably more for my home lab: Sceptre 27" Curved 75Hz LED Monitor C278W-1920R Full HD 1080P HDMI DisplayPort VGA Speakers, Ultra Thin Metal Black, 1800R immersive curvature, 2018; although 4k would be nice for a lot of things; 1080p is fine for looking at code
https://www.google.com/search?q=Sceptre+27"+Curved+75Hz+LED+Monitor+C278W-1920R&oq=Sceptre+27"+Curved+75Hz+LED+Monitor+C278W-1920R 

WED MAY 23
----------
**Modeling with ML**

Q: Does modeling with ML cause more design blocks or just exposing design issues earlier?

A: Probably just exposes design issues ealier. Still have the ability to ignore areas just like other modeling techniques. Even define ToDo(). And, with ML you can do more with the model. In a sense, make illegal states unrepresentable (MISU).


**GDPR Essence**
Do not being sneaky. If you are honest and transparent and implementing controls, you won’t face the fines that come with GDPR.

Sneaky would be collecting GPS on user and storing it for other purposes than recommending a nearby coffee shop. Or a game doing the same.

**Comedy**

"When you make a blame sandwich, you've gotta be ready to eat it. Chapter 10." - Mr. Woodcock

"You couldn't kill me with a shotgun and a head start." - Mr. Woodcock

TUES MAY 22
-----------
Need a data map
+ How do we get it
+ Where stored
+ Are we collecting anything that is not needed

Data Dictionary

**Dissonance**

Q: What's a common cognitive dissonance created by leaders?

A: People are very important (#1). People are cogs.

=> Watch out for process diagrams that treat people as cogs. Nothing in agile manifesto that you have be treated as a cog.


MON MAY 21
----------

**GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) Notes**

Europe: Inside borders of EU

Fines: 4% of annual global turnover or €20 million

80% will fail to comply in 2018 according to 

Personal Data
+ Defined broadly
+ PII (personally identifiable information) is not the same things as personal data

250 Employees or 5000 EU users => Data Protection Officer

SUN MAY 20
----------
Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft, has a thought exercise that could help you resolve one of life’s Big Questions. 
 
    Q: How can my company work for me?

    A: 

[Effective ML Part 1 2011, Harvard](https://vimeo.com/21564387)

[Effective ML Part 2 2011, Harvard](https://vimeo.com/21564926)

**Effective ML Notes**

Lessons
+ Make illegal states unrepresentable (MISU)
+ Favor readers over writers
+ Create uniform interfaces
+ Code for exhaustiveness
+ Open few modules
+ Make common errors obvious
+ Avoid boilerplate
+ Avoid complex type hackery
+ Don't be puritanical about purity



SAT MAY 19
----------

Q: What are the pros/cons with BLOB (Boring Line Of Business) apps written using classic CRUD (CReate Update Delete) model? 

A:


Q: What happens when it doesn't work out?

A: Move on. There is literally an unlimited number of other people to work with on the planet.


Simple is better than complex.

Complex is better than complicated.

Flat is better than nested.

Sparse is better than dense.

-The Zen of Python

Ionide: now puts F# tools in separate tab now rather than with workspace; much cleaner



FRI MAY 18
----------
GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation)

Europe: Inside borders of EU

Fines: 4% of annual global turnover or €20 million

80% will fail to comply in 2018 according to 

Personal Data
+ Defined broadly
+ PII (personally identifiable information) is not the same things as personal data

GTA: Mustang is Vapid Dominator 

THUR MAY 17
-----------
**DIGITAL Transformation**

Q: What is digital transformation?

A: Digital transformation (DX) is the change associated with the application of digital technology in all aspects of human society.    

In the software industry, digital transformation has been a part of it from the beginning.

Alot of transformations lead to disruptions or digital disruptions. This class of transformations could be what most people think of digital transformation.

Tar pit of accidental complexity

    Disruptor: Netfolio
    Enabling: mes 24x7
    Get Control: servers under desks; massive downtimes
    Going to the cloud

Q: What are some great tools?

A:
    Separate problem space from solution space (early in proj)
    Determine product market fit
    Lean
    Agile
    Focus on the work
    Functional programming
    DevOps
    Experimentation
    Better decision making: fear and greed
    Diversity
    Mindset

Avoid
    Dogma, biases,
    Ego: it is not your amigo
    Best practices
    Large teams
    Too much process  
    Over engineering


WED MAY 16
----------
Q: Is silence the think tank for the mind?
A:

TUES MAY 15
-----------

**oxytocin** released for empathy; emotional bonding; chemical reward for working as a team; 

Q: Why did we surive when 5 other sapiens did not?

A: Ability to build complex systems; work as a team; driven by our need to feel important - dewey

CODE OF CONDUCT
Be respectful, be open, and be considerate.

From Principles by Ray Dalio

“Think for yourself to decide
1) what you want
2) what is true, and
3) what you should do to achieve #1 in light of #2, and do that with humility and open-mindedness so that you consider the best thinking available to you.”

How to have thoughtful disagreement ()
1. Put our honest pertinent thoughts out on the table,
2. Have thoughtful disagreements in which people are willing to shift their opinions as they learn, and
3. Have agreed-upon ways of deciding (e.g., voting, having clear authorities) if disagreements remain so that we can move beyond them without resentments.

FP

laziness - more modular

Put into someone else's perspective.

MON MAY 14
----------
scha·den·freu·de
[ˈSHädənˌfroidə]

NOUN
pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune. 

Literal translation harm-joy

swollen lizard brain


Q: Can you counter emotion with logic?

A: Not fully. Probably need time to process first.


SUN MAY 13
----------
Mother's day brunch at 11.

Q: Are you being programmed by ads, media, (propoganda)[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Propaganda_in_the_United_States], and apps? And is your programming already determined by your biases?  

A: We all are to some degree. Light to full control? Full control: can't stop buying donuts in Simpsons game. Light: exposed constantly but use system 2 thinking to analyze. Need meta capability.

**dog·ma** 
[ˈdôɡmə]

NOUN
a principle or set of principles laid down by an authority as incontrovertibly true.


Idea: giving journal -- not just gratitude

SAT MAY 12
----------
**Snarky**

I understand banter and snark (had just brothers). Maybe there is a difference. An unhealthy line (classifier).

Defn: Snarky - The act of being sarcastic and dissrespectful.

Defn: Banter - the playful and friendly exchange of teasing remarks.


Q: What is it snarky really?

A: A defense mechanism, Lack of understanding (and wants more), Disrespect, About feeling important (ego)


**Manipulation technique: gas lighting**

is a form of mental abuse in which information is twisted or spun, selectively omitted to favor the abuser, or false information is presented with the intent of making victims doubt their own memory, perception, and sanity.

You can't argue with stupid.


You're the reason I live. You're the reason I die.


Q: What is the problem with brutal honesty?

A: Likely more about the brutality than the honesty.


You can't catch me bc the rabbit done died. - Aerosmith - Sweet Emotion 


FRI MAY 11
----------

[Dual-list for bootstrap]
(https://www.virtuosoft.eu/code/bootstrap-duallistbox/)

Gr: spectre x360 battery replacement successful; watch the speaker and battery cables


THUR MAY 10
-----------
**Life 3.0 Notes**

Life 1.0: 

Life 2.0:

Life 3.0:

Definitions


A.I. Utopians

A.I. 

A.I. Distopians



WED MAY 9
---------
[How To] Disable Diagnostic Tools while debugging (so it won't be so slow with Visual Studio 2017)

Navigate and disable:
Tools -> Options -> Debugging -> Enable Diagnostic Tools while debugging

The earth doesn't need us; neither does life. - one strange rock s1, e7

Gr: Somehow I got what I hoped: my daughter is strong, confident, and intelligent.

Regret not speaking up about schema change that is now causing frustration and attention

TUES MAY 8
----------
Q: Is the future of storage JSON or something like it? Is the future here? Like with every cloud/document/no sql db.
 
A: Probably. The key is indexing. :-)


Q: What's serverless container?

A: Invisible infrastructure, Micro-billing, Event-based programming models

SSL in Azure can cost more than a couple of dollars per day.

Azure SSL Prices
Standard SSL Certificate
Wildcard SSL Certificate
Price
$69.99/ year /1-year validity
$299.99/ year /1-year validity

SNI SSL
IP SSL
Price
$0/ month /certificate supported
$39/ month /certificate supported


MON MAY 7
---------
[Microsoft Build: Keynotes and Sessions](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/events/build)

[Channel9 Build Stream](https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2018)

Starts at 10:30 CST

Good Silicon Valley -- Initial Coin Offering (ICO)

    "I give the fight up: let there be an end, 

        A privacy, an obscure nook for me.

            I want to be forgotten even by God."

                    Robert Browning
                    
                    Paracelsus (1835)


SUN MAY 6
--------
Speak a little truth and people always lose their minds.

[ ] Need a new/better password manager or scheme.

Overdesigned CRUD Apps. Update can be used to fix problems.

[http://codingdojo.org/kata/](http://codingdojo.org/kata/)

Delonghi EC680R DEDICA 15-Bar Pump Espresso Machine, Red $200

SAT MAY 5
---------
**Conway's Law** from [1968 essay](http://melconway.com/Home/Committees_Paper.html) or [original form](http://www.melconway.com/Home/pdf/committees.pdf) by Melvin Conway:
“organizations which design systems ... are constrained to produce designs which are copies of the communication structures of these organizations.”

Soln: dynamic teaming

FRI MAY 4
---------
[index table](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/index-table)


**F# Keynote Notes**

[F# Keynote 2018](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/11439-keynote-f-sharp-code-i-love#showModal?modal-signup-complete)

(https://medium.com/@odytrice)

(https://lukemerrett.com/fsharp-domain-modelling/)

Pipelines -- composability
Domain Modeling: discriminant unions, record types, and pattern matching

update/view functions in fable

Does not love

Don't use <| in beginner code 

<||, <||| will be deprecated; don't use

Data fold is a blunt instrument

Replace
    List.fold(fun state x => new-state) state0 xs
with
    Simplier alternatives
        List/Seq/Array.sumBy
        Array.maxBy
        Array.choose
        Array.triPick
        Array.mapFold
        Array.reduce
or
    if you fold or mapFold, use ||>
        (state0, xs) ||> List.fold(fun state => new-state)

Beware of using records when they are not 


THUR MAY 3
----------
Q: Why are exceptions bad?

A: Goto statement; not functional


Q: What to use instead?

A: Materialized errors instead. A state/type that represents the error and is returned. Only use exceptions for truly exception cases (not recoverable) such as out of memory, stack overflow, ...

Less to test

Q: If you have one impl for one interface, is it an abstraction?

A: Probably not good one.


Q: What if "do one thing" means do one thing?

A:

**Incentive Program**

Q: What should it be based on?

A: Should be based on factors 1. Results 2. Helping/coaching others


Q: What if incentive program is too complicated? 


A: No faith in it if you need a spreadsheet. Impedes problem solving and creativity. 


Q: What about incentive clubs/trips?

A: Great carrot. Could help retention high performers. But exclusive not inclusive. 


WED MAY 2
---------

Q: How to get to 10 X?

A: The only way to get to the next 10x is through reuse. Not w/ complicate parts but with simple composition. More expressive pure languages are needed.

The real problem: we operate in a really poor operational model. Mutation and nulls everywhere. Programmers don't even question the basic von numan operating model.

Q: What are key elements?

A: Composibility (reuse), Isolation (testing), Immutability (understanding, concurrency, integration), Discriminant unions (manage lifecycle; MISU; Type Driven Dev)

**OO**

OO leads to fragility in testing

FactoryFactoryFactory: for when you need a factory for FactoryFactory.

**Meta**

Noticed that I can't put some things in my journal that I used to. I use separate journal for client stuff so not that.   

Where do I put those things? Maybe I could just add gratitude stuff although cheesy sometimes. Leave out names to protect the innocent. Or use first names. Or initials.



TUES MAY 1
----------
[Build 2018 Agenda Available](https://mybuild.microsoft.com/sessions)

Figured out disqus integration. Added conversation page since journal will be reverse chrono journal style.

If you think you have it all figured, then double down on your dogma. Humility will find you faster and maybe success too.

Really liking domain modeling w/ F# -- need to map command to result

"We do not map our actions to our mouths." - gary v

Maybe the real issue with d.i. is that so much gets injected. Lot's of coupling when used in mvc approach.

**Mocks**

If you don't have side-effects, then you don't need mocks in general.


Q: Why so much over-design?

A: With OOP, we have trained an entire software industry to over-abstract. The result: most complexity is self-induced. Some companies have definitely reach this conceptual ceiling already.

438 references to FactoryFactory in github. and some to FactoryFactoryFactory.

MON APR 30
----------
Enabling Disqus.

Not showing...

F# for modeling 

Like some of the UX in westworld -- no existing css like it


SUN APR 29
----------

"Never work for a bad client in your life. Because from a bad client, you will get a worse client thereafter. If you get a good client to begin, you will get a better client thereafter. It is better to starve than get a bad client, because from a bad client you just go down.

Don’t work for money, because it’s the lousiest profession in the world to make money… You do design because you feel it inside; you have a moral issue to spread quality in our environment." --Massimo Vignelli

Event Sourcing Design Pattern: Pattern made for L
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LDW0QWie21s
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing

Silicon Valley: Artificial Emotional Intelligence

SAT APR 28
----------
**VSCode?**

Q: Will @VSCode overtake Visual Studio in the next 10 years given it's current velocity?

A:

Grateful: 50" panel didn't burn out.


**VSCode/Ionide**

VSCode/Ionide How to debug test case? For now.

https://github.com/ionide/ionide-vscode-fsharp/wiki/HOWTO-Debug-a-test
HOWTO Debug a test: 

https://github.com/ionide/ionide-vscode-fsharp.wiki.git
One way is to attach the debugger to a running dotnet test.

Add the following code at beginning of the test you want to debug, to wait the debugger

    while not(System.Diagnostics.Debugger.IsAttached) do
      System.Threading.Thread.Sleep(100)
    System.Diagnostics.Debugger.Break()

Run the tests, usually with dotnet test, who will wait until the debugger is attached

Now in vscode go in Debug, and launch configuration .NET Core Attach.

Select the test process, and debugger should attach go in debugging mode

NOTE you can filter the test to run with dotnet test --filter "TestName"

NOTE see the complete list of tests with dotnet test --list-tests


FRI APR 27
----------
Perhaps, it is due to a swollen amygdala.

The problem with OOP: tricky interactions between states of objects.

query. mutation. query. mutation.

"If you never make mistakes then you are not on the frontier of discovery, for there is where mistakes are made all the time." - Neil deGrasse Tyson

Watch Anon -- Netflix Film next Fri May 4

Command -> CommandProcessor (aggregate) -> Events -> Projection

THUR APR 26
-----------
Got to see some very seasoned programmers today: byron, austin, kunal, and vijai.

**Why**

Q: Why no old programmers?

A: Burn out? Retired? Manager? Replaced? No, well maybe a few. The real reason: there just weren't that many of them, but today they're rare beautiful gems.

WED APR 25
----------
Not everyone deserves to know the real you. Let them criticize who they think you are.

Ego is not your amigo.

TUES APR 24
-----------
Flow in MVC: Query. Mutation. Query. Mutation. Query. Mutation.

DSL as language that describes domain via ML types.

MON APR 23
----------
Teaming at Spotify

[Part 1](https://labs.spotify.com/2014/03/27/spotify-engineering-culture-part-1/)

[Part 2](https://labs.spotify.com/2014/09/20/spotify-engineering-culture-part-2/)


[Why leaders eat last?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ReRcHdeUG9Y)

SUN APR 22
----------

**Job Titles?**

Q: Are job titles important? Do they improve or hurt group performance?

Seems like titles hurt group performance if best ideas are not winning. "Checking egos at the door ensures that the quality of an idea - not a person’s rank - always wins." - INC. Magazine

Statusing can take a lot of time, money, and energy. And doesn't add much value in group performance -- other than, how do I fit in and how can I contribute?

Q: Are job titles condusive for dynamic teaming?

They don't seem to be good for dynamic teaming, because with dynamic teaming -- different people lead different projects -- and different people assist with those projects. Dynamic teaming seems to be the only way for an org not to cause issues with the architecture. Architecture <-> Organization. Adele Goldberg has great quote.

Q: Do job titles and proper structure reduce waste and improve focus?

Q: Are job titles good for your career?

Most likely yes. But they are institutionally overdone. Could hurt your chances for the next job. You're likely more than the title anyway.

If hiring managers look for it, then it is important.

But what do people really want out of company: be treated fairly and compensated appropriately; work with interesting people and challenging projects.  

Q: If you had any job title you wanted, what would it do?


**Job Title References**

 (https://www.huffingtonpost.com/scott-macfarland/are-job-titles-important_b_11071126.html)

 (http://www.getinterviews.com/job-titles-arent-important-or-are-they-2.html)

SAT APR 21
----------
Wakeland wins boy's and girl's texas high school soccer state title. Picked up Ainsley from cheer bus at Buccees on way home. Nice to spend time with her. Busy girl. 

Both teams haven't won in same year since 1980's.

FRI APR 20
----------
Strategy session in San Antonio. 

THUR APR 19
-----------
Travel to San Antonio today.

REMOTE WORKING NOTES

Non-performers don't survive in ROWE environment whereas they might do fine going into the office and not performing. Taking some direction and talking about working alot, but without results. 

Isn't there something wrong with the way we look at work if this is true?

The fact that non-performers are fine if they come in. The implication: we don't know how to manage work so we manage peoples time. Another implication: you don't know how to focus as a company -- one of the areas of biggest waste. At a macro level a manager might be wasting 85% of the effort then expect/pressure devs to work lots of overtime -- essentially making things worse.  

You know how mobile-first allowed us to focus on the truely essential parts of the app, we need to focus the results first and the ability to perform remote work.  Demo or die. 

The mind confuses talking with doing. Leads to a mindset where you want to have everything solved by talking. Waiting for someone to tell you what to do.

Benefits from study
    Lower attrition rates
    Savings $1,900 per employee 
    Increased productivity by 13.5%; equivalent of extra day of work for everyone
    Shorter breaks and fewer sick days; took less time off

Risks
    Jepardize cohesion of your team. Although I find there to be less drama. Scrum and you have at least one meeting per week where anybody can say anything

What is needed?
    Deep work environment

What can you do?

The problem: managers value presense over performance.

This is really about two things: remote working and result-oriented.



References

(http://ideas.ted.com/why-working-from-home-should-be-standard-practice/amp/?lipi=urn%3Ali%3Apage%3Ad_flagship3_feed%3B5OFKw8uqSw2TzYKq1qPLeA%3D%3D)

(https://www.inc.com/brian-de-haaff/3-ways-remote-workers-outperform-office-workers.html)



WED APR 18
----------
Every design decision comes with a tradeoff. We chose X accepting downside Y in support of Z.

**D.I. (dependency injection)**

- violates single resposibility principle
- increases complexity
- runtime penalty for those that walk all classes in all DLLs
- if you inject something different then why use di?
- privates aren't private
- needless dependencies
- big constructors


**Alternatives**

AbstractFactory

Factory

Lambda's 


D.I. author's claims of composition/reuse via injection? wow.

what about f: a -> a as a composition strategy?

ServiceLocator
- Glorified static factory

- glorified 

TUES APR 17
-----------
**Why?**

Why put logic in services? Why micro?

What is being solved? What are the goals? What are the shortcomings?


"Programmers know the benefits of everything and the tradeoffs of nothing." - Rich Hickey

We will find a new place together.

MON APR 16
----------
**Why?**

Q: Why is dependency injection not so great?

A: Because it is a sauce for spaghetti code. Makes it taste better. A way to scope. But global. Inject needless dependencies. For example, you likely only need one method out of eight. By example, one injects more dep than needed.

60-90 minute segments today. 

[x] Prepare Presentation

Q: Why isn't software an engineering?

A: Could be because engineers know about tradeoffs. Software developers (engineers) know the benefits of everything and the tradeoffs of nothing. - needs some credit to rich hickey

SUN APR 15
----------
Ray Dalio, "What is your recipe for success?" The principles. Write them down. 

Notes from Ray: Principles

You have to be an independent thinker. Whether you are an investor or entrepreneur, you have to think differently. You have to bet against the conscensus and be right. When you go down that path, you are going to be wrong a number of times. Humility.

The fear of being wrong should make you open-minded. I'm either going to have success or I'm going to gain understanding.

Pain + Reflection = Progress

Idea Meritocracy - best ideas win out

The magic: idea metritocracy in which the goals are meaningful work and meaningful relationships which are achieved via radical truthfulness and radical transparency. Radical truthfulness means that anyone can say what they mean. Radical transparency means you can't manipulate the truth.

Simple steps

Step 1: create an environment for candor 

Step 2: understand art of thoughtful feedback and disagreement

Step 3: if you don't have agreement, then how do you need a mechanism to get past it


1st order consequences are usually opposite to 2cd order consquences.

How to make the most out of failure? Micro failures. Macro wins.

I'm not really competitive. I'm driven.

Q: Can you separate yourself from your opinions?

**What?**

What is your recipe for success?
I wish everyone could answer this question. 
Great question. Use it for QED120.

SAT APR 14
---------- 
Algebraic Types as a DSL that describes the domain.

Don Syme has great F# tips during his [F# Keynote](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/11439-keynote-f-sharp-code-i-love#showModal?modal-signup-complete)

FRI APR 13
----------

**Why?**
 
Q: Why doesn't imperative code come with the same side-effect warnings as OTC medication?

A: Imperative could cause disorientation, confusion, and general sense of worry. Imperative can cause outbreaks of NullPointer, Application, and other exceptions. Use caution when integrating. Leakage of memory and other resources have been reported. Do not use Imperative when operating in production. Insomonia, thoughts of suicide, spontaneous outbreaks of profanity can occur.  Please use Imperative responsibly. Do not use Imperative if you are using any other imperative code. 

Be sure to ask a functional developer before using Imperative.  

**F#**

[fsharpConf](http://fsharpconf.com/) starts in 3 days -- Monday April 16
Free web conference on channel 9

**MISU**

**Logic**

When you think the code is defying logic, it's problably the logic. This lesson, I learn over and over.  

Be pro-stuff not anti-stuff


THUR APR 12
-----------

**Where?**

Q: Where should I put my journal on the web to make it more available and transparent.

A: Start a GitHub blog. Natural. Using Jekell Now for easy config

**F#**

[F# Keynote](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/11439-keynote-f-sharp-code-i-love#showModal?modal-signup-complete) to watch.

"You either walk toward humility or it will find you." -- Andrew Kerr


