---
layout: post
title: Daily Q 2019
---
**These views are my own. But not the models and controllers.**



TUE DEC 31
----------
[X] 2 - MSI - Optix MAG270VC 27" LED Curved FHD FreeSync Monitor - Black

supports 75x75 vesa mount  

[X] Send iPhone replacement

MON DEC 30
----------

affected - made impact on
effected - produced

"A metaphor is something, a simile is like something, and an analogy explains how one thing being like another helps explain them both." 
- Robert Lee Brewer

Metaphor: Time is a thief.
Simile: Time is like a thief.
Analogy: Time is like a thief in that thieves steal physical objects and time steals moments of our lives.


SUN DEC 29
----------
He who asks is a fool for 5 minutes; he who asks not is a fool forever.


“He who asks is a fool for five minutes, but he who does not ask remains a fool forever.”

― Mark Twain


Q: What is my personal brand?
A: Deep work, data science, CS, understanding,

Q: How do I want my tribe to be? 
A: Open-minded, growth mindset, ego in check (eq), kind, ... Ideally, fp.

Q: Where is my tribe?
A:

Q: What is a tribe?
A:



SAT DEC 28
----------  
What's needed? What do I want?
Need to get connected. Overcome knowledge illusion w/ data science and ML. Personal branding. More meaningful work.

Why?
More control. More upside.

How?
Podcast might be sweet spot for branding, overcoming the knowledge  illusion and get me more connected if modestly successful.

Think4.Me

When? Sequence?

Decision points?
1. Is the podcast idea w/ 2 G's going to work? Need 5 minute demo. then decide.
2. Either 2 G's or just me talking for now


Could brand as 2 G's and have another for interviews/discussions.


FRI DEC 27
----------
Need to get back to vegetarianism. but had great mongolian prime rib.

pubg. chicken dinner

THU DEC 26
----------
Q: What do I want to do with my career in 2020?
A:

pubg. chicken dinner

WED DEC 25
----------
B, D, GJ, A, L, C,and K for wonderful dinner.

TUE DEC 24
----------
Christmas eve. Grateful to spend time with Ainsley.

MON DEC 23
----------
PTO started.

“OOP as a paradigm incentivizes code obfuscation (which is for some reason confused with abstraction), while [functional programming] tends to make things as explicit as possible…”

OOP encourages obfuscation which is rationalized as abstraction.
FP encourages to make things as explicit as possible.

SUN DEC 22
----------
Star wars watching party at Cinemark w/ A.

SAT DEC 21
----------
Need to see mom and dad

FRI DEC 20
----------
Finished it out.

THU DEC 19
----------
PUBG. Chicken Dinner.

WED DEC 18
----------
PTO. Yay.

TUE DEC 17
----------
Q: Pure matrix model or bias/weight model?

MON DEC 16
----------
ephermeral - last a short time
ethereal - too perfect; heavly
surreal - bizarre

meta - self referential
metaphysical - reality beyond the senses

death is a mystery

the key to successful change is to marry logic, emotion and the environment


SUN DEC 15
----------
“Interesting things happen along borders – transitions – not in the middle where everything is the same.” – Neal Stephenson

SAT DEC 14
----------
Katherine's Graduation Ceremony

Got to see mom and dad.

FRI DEC 13
----------
Headed to Norman.

THU DEC 12
----------
Q: What to call a table that combines multiple other sources? 
A: movie_unified?  movie_by_source

What are types of tables?
_staging
_fact
_dimension
Unified from sources
Transformation (Report, )
EntityState
Projection
entity/relationship
_xref

Time is not your friend.

WED DEC 11
----------
When you're in a debate and it feels like whack a mole, ask them to give you one thing where they have a belief where you disagree.

Best practices -- a logical basis for overdesigned systems.

TUE DEC 10
----------
my late grandma cowin thought that television sets were monitoring devices. as it turns out, she was right. https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/09/18/you-watch-tv-your-tv-watches-back/

MON DEC 9
---------
Q: can the human condition be free of dispair, anger, insecurity, jealousy, and the need to feel important? Or should it?


SUN DEC 8
---------
[ ] Use new model for neuron and layer

SAT DEC 7
----------
Azure Data Lake Limits
Maximum number of concurrent jobs:	20	
Maximum number of analytics units (AUs) per account: 250 AU's across 20 jobs.

250	Use any combination of up to a maximum of 250 AUs across 20 jobs. To increase this limit, contact Microsoft Support.

Convolutional neural networks (CNNs)

Five types of layers: 
    input, 
    convolution, 
    pooling, 
    fully connected 
    and output. 
    
Each layer has a specific purpose, like 
    summarizing, 
    connecting or 
    activating. 
    
Convolutional neural networks have popularized image classification and object detection. However, CNNs have also been applied to other areas, such as natural language processing and forecasting.

FRI DEC 6
---------
There is a lot of potential to stretch out that story but your attention span is close to E.

"It's like the nature channel, you don't see parana's eating each other." - Rounders

THU DEC 5
---------
Q: How to extract business logic out of IO? Or how to make sure it doesn't leak in just like business process?

A:

WED DEC 4
---------
Sometimes I feel like the butler; and the paycheck.

Common thinking produces common results.

There are arguments of the effect...

TUE DEC 3
---------
A: Where is the line between computer code and consciousness?

MON DEC 2
---------
Principal component analysis (PCA) is a statistical procedure that uses an orthogonal transformation to convert a set of observations of possibly correlated variables (entities each of which takes on various numerical values) into a set of values of linearly uncorrelated variables called principal components. This transformation is defined in such a way that the first principal component has the largest possible variance (that is, accounts for as much of the variability in the data as possible), and each succeeding component in turn has the highest variance possible under the constraint that it is orthogonal to the preceding components. The resulting vectors (each being a linear combination of the variables and containing n observations) are an uncorrelated orthogonal basis set. PCA is sensitive to the relative scaling of the original variables.

Greek Alphabet
Twenty-four letters (each in uppercase and lowercase forms) are: Α α, Β β, Γ γ, Δ δ, Ε ε, Ζ ζ, Η η, Θ θ, Ι ι, Κ κ, Λ λ, Μ μ, Ν ν, Ξ ξ, Ο ο, Π π, Ρ ρ, Σ σ/ς, Τ τ, Υ υ, Φ φ, Χ χ, Ψ ψ, and Ω ω.

SUN DEC 1
---------
Q: Why is it so easy to climb to the moral high ground and then sling mud?

A: The high ground is a great defensive position in general. So don't storm the hill. 

What's the counter other than to point it out?

    Who's morality is in question? BC I suspect it's to cover something from the gutter.


SAT NOV 30
----------
OU vs OSU


FRI NOV 29
----------
Dropped stuffing.

THU NOV 28
----------
Thanksgiving w/ A J J J B D K S. High energy fun and goodness.

WED NOV 27
----------
I will answer your questions not insults.

TUE NOV 26
----------
[X] Timesheet
[X] Status
[X] Password change

Machine Learning is the science (and art) of programming computers so they can learn from data.

A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some task T and some performance measure P, if its performance on T, as measured by P, improves with experience E.Tom Mitchell, 1997

[Machine Learning is the] field of study that gives computers the ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.

Arthur Samuel, 1959


MON NOV 25
----------
single-leader, multi-leader, and leaderless approaches.

Unifying batch and stream processing in one system requires the following features, which arebecoming increasingly widely available:The ability to replay historical events through the same processing engine that handles the stream of recent events. 

For example, log-based message brokers have the ability to replay messages (see “Replaying old messages”), and some stream processors can read input from a distributed filesystemlike HDFS. Exactly-once semantics for stream processors—that is, ensuring that the output is the same asif no faults had occurred, even if faults did in fact occur (see “Fault Tolerance”).Like with batch processing, this requires discarding the partial output of any failed tasks.     

Tools for windowing by event time, not by processing time, since processing time is meaningless  when reprocessing historical events (see “Reasoning About Time”).

For example, Apache Beam provides an API for expressing such computations, which can then be run using Apache Flink or Google Cloud Dataflow.


Whenever a batch, stream, or ETL process transports data from one place and form to another place and form, it is acting like the database subsystem that keeps indexes or materialized views up to date. Viewed like this, batch and stream processors are like elaborate implementations of triggers, stored procedures, and materialized view maintenance routines. The derived data systems they maintain are like different index types.

SUN NOV 24
----------
I'm not testing you, I'm generally curious what you have to say.

Ainsley got accepted to ou and osu.

SAT NOV 23
----------
Ionide Issue: ionide problem reading assembly
Resolution: Uninstall and reinstall Ionide

.NET Test Explorer
For F# projects,
Set "Test Project Path"
**/*Tests.fsproj

FRI NOV 22
----------
Meetings. Just a honey badger looking for an intellectual challenge.

Cassini. Nova.

THU NOV 21
----------
Convolutional Neural Networks.

Edges -> Wheels and Wheel Wells -> Cars

WED NOV 20
----------
Great day at Tribute. Perfect Scotland conditions. Windy and gray. J. D. K.


TUE NOV 19
----------
http://work.caltech.edu/lectures.html

SVM data mining algorithm
Support vector machine (SVM) learns a hyperplane to classify data into 2 classes.

Advantages of Using SVM
+ SVM offers best classification performance (accuracy) on the training data.
+ SVM renders more efficiency for correct classification of the future data.
+ The best thing about SVM is that it does not make any strong assumptions on data.
+ It does not over-fit the data.

Naïve Bayes Classifier
+ Naïve Bayes Classifier algorithm performs well when the input variables are categorical.

Apriori
What does it do? The Apriori algorithm learns association rules and is applied to a database containing a large number of transactions.

What are association rules? Association rule learning is a data mining technique for learning correlations and relations among variables in a database.

What’s an example of Apriori? Let’s say we have a database full of supermarket transactions. You can think of a database as a giant spreadsheet where each row is a customer transaction and every column represents a different grocery item.

https://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/05/top-10-data-mining-algorithms-explained.html/2

MON NOV 18
----------
Place Order Workflow Description
workflow "Place Order" =
​ 	    input: UnvalidatedOrder
​ 	    output (on success):
​ 	        OrderAcknowledgmentSent
​ 	        AND OrderPlaced (to send to shipping)
​ 	        AND BillableOrderPlaced (to send to billing)
​ 	    output (on error):
​ 	        ValidationError

substep "ValidateOrder" =​     
    input: UnvalidatedOrder​     
    output: ValidatedOrder 
        OR ValidationError​     
    dependencies: CheckProductCodeExists, CheckAddressExists

substep "PriceOrder" =​     
    input: ValidatedOrder​     
    output: PricedOrder​     
    dependencies: GetProductPrice

SUN NOV 17
----------
make the constructor private and have a separate function that creates valid values and rejects invalid values, returning an error instead. In FP communities, this is sometimes called the smart constructor approach. Here’s an example of this approach applied to UnitQuantity:​ 

    ​type​ UnitQuantity = ​private​ UnitQuantity ​of​ ​int​​ 
    ​//                  ^ private constructor​

So now a UnitQuantity value can’t be created from outside the containing module due to the private constructor. However, if we write code in the same module that contains the type definition above, then we can access the constructor.

 	​// define a module with the same name as the type​
​ 	​module​ UnitQuantity =
​ 	
​ 	  ​/// Define a "smart constructor" for UnitQuantity​
​ 	  ​/// int -> Result<UnitQuantity,string>​
​ 	  ​let​ create qty =
​ 	    ​if​ qty < 1 ​then​
​ 	      ​// failure​
​ 	      Error ​"UnitQuantity can not be negative"​
​ 	    ​else​ ​if​ qty > 1000 ​then​
​ 	      ​// failure​
​ 	      Error ​"UnitQuantity can not be more than 1000"​
​ 	    ​else​
​ 	      ​// success -- construct the return value​
​ 	      Ok (UnitQuantity qty)


SAT NOV 16
----------
Miss Ainse.

FRI NOV 15
----------
Q: How to display a network of 1 million nodes (Ideally from file)?
A: Gephi (100,000 nodes),

THU NOV 14
----------
Azure Data Lake Limits
Maximum number of concurrent jobs:	20	
Maximum number of analytics units (AUs) per account:	
250	Use any combination of up to a maximum of 250 AUs across 20 jobs. To increase this limit, contact Microsoft Support.

WED NOV 13
----------
Don't worry. I've propelled it to a dark place in the back of my mind.

TUE NOV 12
----------
Lesson learned: don't try to eye ball it, use diff tool.

MON NOV 11
----------
Traditionally, Automation is a substitution of capital for labor.

objective function:
    can be the result of an attempt to express a business goal in mathematical terms for use in decision analysis, operations research or optimization studies.
    An equation to be optimized given certain constraints and with variables that need to be minimized or maximized using nonlinear programming techniques. 


 loss function (aka cost function, reward function, utility function, fitness function)
    In mathematical optimization and decision theory, a loss function or cost function is a function that maps an event or values of one or more variables onto a real number intuitively representing some "cost" associated with the event. An optimization problem seeks to minimize a loss function.


SUN NOV 10
----------
Objection: I don't like that neural networks can't explain why they think something.

Response: We can't explain the majority of our knowledge with words. Do we expect more from machine intelligence? And it seems that it can explain some of it just like us.

F# for Data Science and ML
    TypeProviders
    Units of Measure
    Modeling
    ML.NET

SAT NOV 9
---------
Most of our knowledge cannot be communicated.

There are many aspects of the world that we can't explain with words. That is probably the majority of our knowledge. It's only the tip of the iceberg.

FRI NOV 8
---------
Back to your regularly scheduled programming.

THU NOV 7
---------
Some of us lived thru the ai winter. now it could be huge as far as impact. some predict bigger than industrial revolution. imagine what self driving cars could do to many industries. lot of transformation. it's years off and takes long time (30 years usually) for full adoption

neural net calcs are pretty simple and map well to GPUs. some of medium priced on*es have over 1000 cores. lot of things coming together.

Acer 27"
In order to get the best out of this monitor, you have to turn off the following settings:
- Black Boost (In Picture)
- Super Sharpness (In Picture)
- Over Drive (in Gaming)
 

WED NOV 6
---------
> dotnet tool install -g mlnet

Q: How to set degree of parallelism for u-sql jobs in vscode?
A: Ctrl+Shift+P > ADL: Set Script Parameters.

ML is now a tool/component to be used at times just like others.

TUE NOV 5
---------
[X] Lunch w/ Kevin at Chuy's

MON NOV 4
---------
Correlator, Collector, Reducer, Exploder, Mapper, ...

SUN NOV 3
---------
Regression is a statistical measurement used in finance, investing, and other disciplines that attempts to determine the strength of the relationship between one dependent variable (usually denoted by Y) and a series of other changing variables (known as independent variables).

SAT NOV 2
---------
Elon Musk: treat all input as error.


FRI NOV 1
---------
Lack of trust in automation counter example: 
One day ago we had elevator operators. but today we wouldn't want an elevator operator today controlling the elevator betweeen floors. it's more dangerous. you could use the lever to stop anywhere even between floors.

THU OCT 31
----------
"AI began with an ancient wish to forge the gods." - Pamel McCorduck, Machines who Think, 1979


WED OCT 30
----------
[X] P App!
[ ] Print docs!

Distracted driving is a dangerous epidemic.

"Marketing is about values" - Steve Jobs. 1997.

TUE OCT 29
----------
Idea: The Loop

Is all IO done in a loop?
Thought loop

The reason we struggle with negativity is because we overvalue positive reinforcement.


MON OCT 28
----------
Use "System of Record" not "Authority of record"

Source of Truth (SOT): The source of truth is a trusted data source that gives a complete picture of the data object as a whole.

System of Record (SOR): A system of record is the authoritative data source for a given data element or piece of information.

SUN OCT 27
----------
Most probably don't remember the overhype of AI of the 80's: Japan vs. US, 5th generation, 

And most of has have lived thru what's called the "AI winter" that resulted. From a project perspective, it was sometimes bad to even say that you were using A.I. Clearly, the AI winter is over and we will see an AI surgence and spend way beyond what happend in the 80's.

It's a good time to go deep on AI. Here are some great deep learning resources. Anyone can learn it.

Deep Learning
-------------
https://deeplearning.mit.edu/

http://introtodeeplearning.com/2019/index.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning

TensorFlow
https://playground.tensorflow.org/

Data Sets/Resources
http://deeplearning.net/datasets/

ML.NET
https://dotnet.microsoft.com/apps/machinelearning-ai/ml-dotnet#extensibility

Frontline: promis and perils of ai
https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/announcement/frontline-investigates-the-promise-and-perils-of-artificial-intelligence-in-a-two-hour-special/

SAT OCT 26
----------
[ ] Print and mail docs
[ ] Data Science Notes
[ ] Data Patterns/Integration Patterns

FRI OCT 25
----------
Negative/fixed thinking:
Usually proper in tone and diction. But with negative dominating petulant mindset. The method: mashing and churning until selfish objective is met.

And surprisingly can't handle feedback or received negativity and it goes back into the loop. Like a thermostat that can't be turned down.
 

THU OCT 24
----------
Q: How can the narrative avoid being controlled by the powerful?  
A:  

WED OCT 23
----------
How does whiterose hack time?

Digitization of information -- all kinds of problems now have data

TUE OCT 22
----------
Making people feel bad about their code and ability vs. teaching and mentoring

MON OCT 21
---------- 
Q: What would challenge all enterprise orgs ge?
A: The ability to combine and move.

SUN OCT 20
----------
[ ] Print and mail docs

[X] ML Lecture
[ ] Data Science Notes
[X] Sci-Fi: Mr Robot,

[ ] Data Patterns/Integration Patterns


SAT OCT 19
----------
Spagehetti warehouse west end. becky and derald. grateful to spend time and walk with ainsley.

FRI OCT 18
----------
Xbox update tonight, I do not want forte nite.

THU OCT 17
----------
I want to think about new ideas. Grateful to be more clear headed.

WED OCT 16
----------
Sick day. oof. except for a deployment.  

Feel like I've been on a trip but only traveled 50 feet.

TUE OCT 15
----------
Propositions as types. Types as Propositions.

MON OCT 14
----------
Q: What about using document db structure for exports?
A: The problem would be the import companies coping with the structure. Would the richness of the model overcome the complexity of the import. that might be the deciding question?

SUN OCT 13
----------
Grateful for morning walk of OSU campus. quiet. zen like. No one. 9:30 am. the week before home coming.

Girls home safely.

SAT OCT 12
----------
Tour of OSU. Eskimo Joes. Back to the crowd, but ...

Thanks to Cody for great tour.

FRI OCT 11
----------
43 F. So nice. Grateful for a cold rainy day.

Chickpea Soup
-------------
chickpeas 
olive oil
lemon
rosemary
red pepper
salt

THU OCT 10
----------
Senior Pep rally. 
 
WED OCT 9
---------
Q: Do code reviews work? 

TUE OCT 8
---------
CloudReady USB Maker
Installed easily.
Chromebook.

MON OCT 7
---------
Grateful for beautiful cool day and chance to take nature walk and to spend time with ac. Stranger Things.

Got into flow.

SUN OCT 6
---------
F# updated to dotnet 3


F# dotnet set up w/ dotnet 3.0
------------------------------
dotnet new classlib -lang F# -n NewProj -f netstandard2.1
dotnet new nunit -lang F# -n TestProj -f netcoreapp3.0 --dry-run
dotnet sln
dotnet sln experiment.sln add NewProj\NewProj.fsproj
dotnet sln experiment.sln add TestProj\TestProj.fsproj
cd TestProj
dotnet add reference ..\NewProj\NewProj.fsproj

SAT OCT 5
---------
Family pain.

FRI OCT 4
---------
Ainsley at the Ford Star. Wakeland vs 

THU OCT 3
---------
Sweet tastes.

WED OCT 2
---------
Jen's b-day.

TUE OCT 1
---------
If you are going to work remotely, you need a good wired mic. No bluetooth.

Brother.

MON SEP 30
----------
Problems are opportunities. Design thinking and transformation require us to first change/innovate ourselves. 

Love the problem. Embrace the problem. 

Companies today need more than agility and customer focused. They need empathy.

Q: What kind of project do I want?
A: Where I can help drive but not have most of the ideas that empcompass all touch points for the customer. Experienced it before and probably the most fun problems to embrace.

SUN SEP 29
----------
Indignant: feeling or showing anger or annoyance at what is perceived as unfair treatment.



SAT SEP 28
----------
I feel like I'm done with the waste. 

[ ] Create account for future

Sigmoid Neuron
Sigmoid neurons are similar to perceptrons, but modified so that small changes in their weights and bias cause only a small change in their output. That's the crucial fact which will allow a network of sigmoid neurons to learn.

FRI SEP 27
----------
[X] Oil Change
[-] freon

12a: Neural Nets: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uXt8qF2Zzfo

Inspired by ne

Dentritic tree
axon
dendrite

coincidence detectors

convolution - think of it as combination - combination fo different types of data

THU SEP 26
----------
sec arch
Psychologically, you're a bit Newtonian. Mechanistic. Predictable. Driven by the need to feel important (dewey via freud)

WED SEP 25
----------
dotnet 3.0 and F# 4.7 installed
dotnet fsi

TUE SEP 24
----------
Data Science Skills
+ Math & Stats
+ Coding
+ Domain Knowledge

Other
+ ML
+ Techs such as Spark
+ Neural Nets

Math
----
Probabability/Stats
Matrix algebra
Lambda Calc
Encryption/Large Primes
Category Theory
Chaos Theory


MON SEP 23
----------
Chaos Theory. Order can be found in disorder.

Complexity Theory.



SUN SEP 22
----------
Q: What is type amplification?
A: Type amplification is the “lifting” of types into a context. It’s sort of a Type wrapper.

SAT SEP 21
----------
Max Resolution: GeoForce GTX 1060
7680x4320 @60Hz
7680/1920=4

FRI SEP 20
----------
F# 4.6
.net 3.0 is not quite released yet.



THU SEP 19
----------
Q: Which is my favorite: Scala or F#?
A:
Scala
+ 3.0 and provable type system
+ context parameters in 3.0
- Java

F#
+ ocaml
+ .net
+ runs in so many places
- no jobs
- no spark (just found that it is in works); not masi
- not as popular?

I would love to use either one day to day. I'm not sure.

F# might be better general choice given .net/xamarin/ml

WED SEP 18
----------
[ ] Schedule PTO. Might be off for month of dec to use it all so better schedule.

TUE SEP 17
----------
[ ] Investigage Ultra-learning technique

MON SEP 16
----------
Taking the moral high-ground doesn't make up for torturing people and the backlash that occurs. Takes more than good intentions, one has to take responsiblity for the outcome no matter the intention.

SUN SEP 15
----------
probability of staying = f(age, activity, content_type, price)

probability of watching movie x = f(age, activity, movie, price)

Machine Learning is more operational while causal inference is more strategic.

consider restricting to mc members since better activity for customer

SAT SEP 14
----------
Study
[ ] Category Theory Lectures
[ ] vs code shortcuts
[ ] Scala update
[ ] ML, Probability, Data Science Notebook/map
[ ] Category theory map

FRI SEP 13
----------
Fri 13. Oof.

Sometimes there is great focus on what is needed -- the right thing -- but not willing to change. It must come first. I'm serious. You have to be radically open-minded. Not constipated and pedantic.

THU SEP 12
----------
10:30 Void at Cinemark; VR with Cinemark team.

Was awesome! Indelible experience. Keena, Steve, Todd, Nathan, Rob.

I liked the putting on the gear experience. The suspended 15 lb packs. VR suspended above w/ cable. Could use sound effects during this stage to really improve. Like a locked and loaded sound.

Grateful for getting to go. Very nice perk. Went along way.

WED SEP 11
----------
iPhone 11 Pro:          starts at $999
Alienware Aurora R9:    starts at $969

meeting in 2cd tower w/ Morgan Stanley and Jim O. where are the people now? i need to talk to Jim.

need to add daily gratitude to my journal like i used to; although sometimes too private for journal. overshare is not transparency.

TUE SEP 10
----------
Role power is ...

MON SEP 9
---------
motivation is not the problem. 

SUN SEP 8
---------
"Much of the essence of bulding a program is in fact the debugging of the specification." - Fred Brooks

SAT SEP 7
---------
don't worry about humanity. in the future, there will be more transparency and ego directed at good.

q: can we evolve out of the "need to feel important" that drives high level behavior? or at least channel it?
a:

q: what is required?
a: empathy, reality feeback, transparency, something deeper, ...

perhaps, with more feedback, more reality, more ..

FRI SEP 6
---------
Q: What will design language be like for lite os?
A: Designed for ink/3d; probably xaml based; 

THU SEP 5
---------
Learn
[ ] More navigation keyboard shortcuts for vscode
[ ] Category theory lectures
[ ] New Scala release
[ ] 

WED SEP 4
---------
Great Q: What is the use case?


TUE SEP 3
---------
Q: What do you want to really do?
A: I'd really like to start a revolution - method - teaming - culture - tech.  The downside: it's asking for 
 degree of trouble. The rest is upside.

MON SEP 2
---------
Labor Day. No work.

You optimize for busy people, you'll get busy people. If you optimize for finished work, you'll get finished work.

SUN SEP 1
---------
OU 49
Houston 31

SAT AUG 31
----------
Brother.

FRI AUG 30
----------
You have come to signal your innate superiority. Self-congratulation. Shaming outsiders. 

THU AUG 29
----------
Bobbi's funeral. 

WED AUG 28
----------
What are the issues with coaching in a hierachical environment?


TUE AUG 27
----------
1-1. CoL

MON AUG 26
----------
Concepts and tools that we use in development:
Abstraction
Composition
Identity

Also, think about...
Determinism - how long
Time/sequencing - in what order
Security - 

Type Theory Formalisms
----------------------
Lambda Calculus - Alonzo church
Denotational Semantics - semantics should be compositional

Predicate Logic -

Russell's paradox: showed attempt to formalize naive set theory led to contradiction.

DOT - Dependent Object Type

Soundness

SUN AUG 25
----------
Q: From societial perspective, what are some great outcomes from the internet?
A: Wikipedia, education video (khan, youtube edu, ...), email, messaging, social media?, MOG?, 

SAT AUG 24
----------
"People can (and problably should) rebase their private trees (their own work). That's a cleanup. But never other people's code. That's a "destroy history." - Linus

FRI AUG 23
----------
Q: How to get requirements right?
A: Problem frame? and reframe? Spend more time on the understanding of the problem statement than planning. Clarity breeds success.

THU AUG 22
----------
Q: What does snarky behavior do to a team or community?
A: It puts the idea and change people at the edge/isolation rather than engaged in center.
Creates emotional waste.

WED AUG 21
----------
Q: What is it snark really?

A: A defense mechanism; Lack of understanding (and wants more); Disrespect; About feeling important (ego)

Q: How do you reduce snarky behavior in a community or team? Snark: snide, disrespectful, critical.
A: Just the snide and disrespect is what needs to be removed. Could always call it out. But what behavioral changes could be made?

Unless the person has psychological problems, perhaps give them what they need: strength, understanding, respect. And then also tell them no need for the snark and the impact of the behavior. when x then y. You are important and wasting it.

TUE AUG 20
----------
Q: Why is getting requirements correct so difficult?
A: Multiple locations/documents; versioning/changes; natural language; common understanding; usually no acceptance criteria; no why is it important; design embedded;


MON AUG 19
-----------
PC Stages
1. Base system + Graphics card 4 port
2. Liquid cooling $400 (CPU + Graphics)
3. Additional SSDs +

SUN AUG 18
-----------
[X] Program sprinker system!

SAT AUG 17
----------
Writing software has always been about comprehension and composition. Keep composing.

Pubg: winner winner chicken dinner solo


FRI AUG 16
----------
Q: What is a difference between trying to do something beautiful on your own terms and delivering for someone else on their terms? 
A: Both are good for you...


THU AUG 15
----------
Q: How to achieve org focus, flow, and truth seeking?
A: Reduce Meetings, improve decision making process, avoid fragmentation, reduce ego and emotional waste. Deep work. Critical thinking.

WED AUG 14
----------
Common IT practice: update the state; update the model; fix the problem by updating the state; and not projecting

Odd balls have the potential to be brilliant.

TUE AUG 13
----------
Q: What is the main problem in development?
A: 85% waste. 

Q: Is the goal 0%?
A: No. Goal is focus and flow. Truth seeking.

Q: "Why?" is the most important question. How can it be asked in a nicer way?
A: To better understand, what is the reason for X?

MON AUG 12
----------
Abstraction: getting rid of details.

Objects hide implementation. Hides wrong thing. Hides mutation and sharing. Abstracts over data races. Locks don't compose either.

What you want to do is hide complexity and be able to compose components together.

SUN AUG 11
----------
Q: What is Category Theory?

+ Unification theory for mathematics
+ Inspired by the fact that Einstein's theory of relativity was just so different than other mathematical models; and the pursuit of unification theories.
+ 19
Category theory was invented in the early 1940s by Samuel Eilenberg and Saunders Mac Lane. It was specifically designed to bridge what may appear to be two quite different fields: topology and algebra; https://www.ams.org/journals/tran/1945-058-00/S0002-9947-1945-0013131-6/

Abstraction
Composition
Identity

Q: What is a category?
A: Bunch of objects. Sometimes sets.  a class is less precise than set. All dogs.

Cannot define the set of all sets.

Q: What is identity?
A: left-identity, right-identity. Like 1 with *. 0 with +. 

Q: What is composition?
A: f -> g -> h

Associativity.

A category has to have associativity.

If the category is a set, then it is called a "small category" otherwise "large category"


Q: What is simpliest view of a type?
A: A set of values.

Mathematical function maps one set to another.
a -> b

Category of Sets
----------------
Function composition works on sets
Set -> Set -> Set

Composition of functions is associative.



SAT AUG 10
----------
Q: What is monad? Formally.

Notes: https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/demystifying-the-monad-in-scala-cc716bb6f534/

Flatten (also known as join in Haskell) is a very important part of the process in our monad machine. 

If we had a map, but no ability to flatten (and therefore no flatMap), then we would end up with what is known in category theory as functor.

flatMap
map is a subset. flatMap is way more powerful. It gives us the ability to chain operations together


Monad is not a class or a trait; monad is a concept. Every “wrapper” that provides us with our two beloved operations, unit, and flatMap, is essentially a monad (well, it’s not really enough to just provide methods with those names, they, of course, have to follow certain laws, but we’ll get to that).

Monad Laws
left-identity law: 
unit(x).flatMap(f) == f(x)

right-identity law: 
m.flatMap(unit) == m

associativity law:
m.flatMap(f).flatMap(g) == m.flatMap(x ⇒ f(x).flatMap(g))

FRI AUG 9
---------
Q: Why monad? The monad cleanly separates the functional and imperative program components. The imperative loop.

named after monoid and triad

THU AUG 8
---------
// Scala Monad
trait M[A] {
  def flatMap[B](f: A => M[B]): M[B]
}
  
def unit[A](x: A): M[A]


WED AUG 7
---------
RIP Bobbi

TUE AUG 6
---------
associative. doesn't matter how you group (associate). result same.

MON AUG 5
---------
[ ] Update passwords

SUN AUG 4
---------
Sports
+ Playbook -> Runbook
+ Gametime decision making -> 
+ Teamwork
+ Training/Practice
+ Coaching
+ Analysis
+ Mental game
+ Spirit
+ Courage
+ Checklists
+ 

Military
+ War room
+ 

SAT AUG 3
---------
Q: Akka or cat effects IO?
A: cat effects - simplier; faster; give up the partial failure - restart.

FRI AUG 2
---------
Q: What is the difference between Scala 2 and 3 in regards to implicit parameters?
A:
Scala 2
  def max[T](x: T, y: T) given (ord: Ord[T]): T
Scala 3
  def max[T](x: T, y: T)(implicit ord: Ord[T]): T

THU AUG 1
---------
When reading, look for a more compact representation.

Jimmy Koppel:

Three Levels
1. runtime
2. code
3. derivation/proof -- the most info

WED JUL 31
----------
The key to transformation: get to point b -- safe and efficiently. The succession problem.


TUE JUL 30
----------
first prin·ci·ples
noun
plural noun: first principles; noun: first principle
the fundamental concepts or assumptions on which a theory, system, or method is based.
"I think we have to start again and go right back to first principles"

MON JUL 29
----------
https://www.amazon.com/Learn-You-Haskell-Great-Good

“You can think of an I/O action as a box with little feet that will go out into the real world and do something there (like write some graffiti on a wall) and maybe bring back some data. Once it has fetched that data for you, the only way to open the box and get the data inside it is to use the <- construct. And if we’re taking data out of an I/O action, we can only take it out when we’re inside another I/O action. This is how Haskell manages to neatly separate the pure and impure parts of our code. getLine is impure because its result value is not guaranteed to be the same when performed twice.”

SUN JUL 28
----------
The primary objective of a type system is to detect programming errors. The type system effectively provides a limited form of static verification, allowing us to express certain kinds of invariants about our code that the compiler can verify. Type systems provide other benefits too of course, but error checking is its Raison d’Être (most important reason).

Future is eager for performance reasons, but cannot be used for lazy or deferred execution.


SAT JUL 27
----------
using Option or scala.util.Try are good, idiomatic choices, as they harness the type system to ensure that the user is properly considering error handling.

Mapping to Success and Failure instead of exceptions is a good way to ensure proper error handling while harnessing the type system and the algebra.

FRI JUL 26
----------
How to spot a liar
------------------
#1: Lying is a cooperative effort
#2: 

Lying is attempt to bridge the gap of what we want.

Lying Stats
-----------
Strangers lie three times within first ten minutes.
We lie more to strangers than coworkers.
Extroverts lie more introverts.
Men lie more about themselves than other people.
Women lie to protect people.

The more intelligent species. The more deceptive.

Deception epidemic

Lie spotting
+ trained lie spotters find 90% of time
+ the rest of us 50%

Lyars
-----
+ More formal language
+ Distance themselves from subject -- that women

Freud said. no mortal can keep a secret. if you keep your lips closed, you body will tell.

Lyars will...
+ not figit, but freeze upper body

Lyars will tell their story in chronological order. And with too much detail.

Duping delight. 

Micro-expressions
+ contempt is an easy to spot. One lip turn turned up and in. superiority.
+ point feet toward exit
+ lower voice

Oversharing is not honesty

Just behaviors. Not deceptions.

Move past spotting lyars, to truth seeking.

THU JUL 25
-----------
Scala IO

Effects
+ anything you can't do twice
+ hard to test
+ make refactoring hard
+ should be controlled

IO Monad

for {
    a <- addToGauge(42)
    b <- addToGauge(42)
} yield a + b

The IO Monad
build a description of the program to run
+ we separate the composition from the declaration
+ concurrency

Why monad?
+ actions need to be sequentialized
+ mondas the the essence of sequencing
+ we need a monad to say "A happens before B"

In Haskell, all roads lead to IO

Concurrency can be more or less handled with IO

There is no FFI between Java and Scala

Scala
+ eager by default evaluation

In Scala
3 evaluation modes are needed for IO in scala
1. strict (for performance)
2. lazy and synchronous - bc we need to capture effects
3. asynchronous (callbacks) - 

Effect capturing constructors 
+ lift or capture 

What are the candidates for handling?
+ Future
    + Ton of problems if trying to use as IO monad such as it runs eagerly by default
    + Memomizes results, so we can't run multiple times; also leaks
    + Not appropriate tool for effect management
    + Promise is leaky
    + Rewrite exceptions into wrapped exceptions

+ Scalaz 7 IO
    + Waste of time
    + Developed when we didn't have asynchronous programming and it doesn't support it
    + only defines lazy effect capturing; so slow when you have pure values
    
3 categories of thead usage
1. computation
2. blocking io
3. event dispatchers

compuation
+ work-stealing non-daemon
+ cpus in size

blocking IO
+ unbounded and caching

Event dispatchers
+ should be very small (1-4) threads; only one in node.js
+ high priority deamon

Monix and fs2
+ tied to larger framework
+ performance

cats-effect
+ Defines IO 
+ All the constructors 
    + pure/apply/async/raiseError
+ Much simpler and faster internals
+ Abstact typeclasses and laws
+ No concurreny
+ Allows thread assignment as an effect
+ Only thread-related function

Abstraction
+ It's really easy to be async
    + laziness and error handling
+ Async requires callback support
+ Effect requires that you are literally equivalent to IO

Stack Safety
+

IO Monad



Scala


Referential Integrity
+ pure functions ensure

[9:55 AM]  Ruben
    These are my favorite themes for VS Code.  It has different light and dark themes.  "Material Oceanic" is my go to dark theme in this pack.

https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=Equinusocio.vsc-material-theme
 
    Cobalt2 is also a good one I've used.  I saw a talk given by the author of this theme and there's actual science on why he chose the colors:

https://github.com/wesbos/cobalt2-vscode
 

THU JUL 23
----------
Q: How to check software correctness?  
A:
+ testing
+ misu/dot
+ fp/immutability/
+ proof thru immutable events/event sourcing 
+ 

Q: How do you prove

Q: What can be done with limited time?
A: 

WED JUL 24
----------
Q: What is the problem with foreach?
A: It returns Unit. It must mutate to provide value. In scala/fp, use for/yield to produce results.

TUE JUL 23
----------
Windows Services
> get-service -Name vpnagent
> start-service vpnagent
> stop-service 

Dotty: dependent object types

MON JUL 22
----------
favorite vscode shortcuts
CTRL+\ side-by-side editing
CTRL+1,CTRL+2,...: switch between editros
CTRL+SHIFT+E: move to explorer window
ALT+LEFT: navigate left
ALT+RIGHT: navigate right
ALT: enables fast scrolling
CTRL/CMD: multi-cursor editing
ALT+Click+Mouse: multi-cursor selecting
CTRL+SHIFT+V: markdown preview
CTRL+K,V: markdown side-by-side
CTRL+SPACE: intellisense
CTRL+SHIFT+P: command pallete 
CTRL+click: go to definition
F2: rename symbol 

SUN JUL 21
----------
All seeing: Panopticon 

Q: After reimaging, what are "must have" tools now?
A:
Personal
Win10 1903
+ vscode w/ extensions: dotty language server, gitlab workflow, glassit, scala syntax, ...
+ vs studio 2019: C# F#
+ xmind zen
+ teams
+ sbt.dotty
+ bash
+ powershell - built in
+ visio
+ office 365
+ ubuntu wsl: limitations such as netmap
+ rdp - built in

Styling: 
+ dark mode: win10, vscode, vs studio, azure data studio, xmind, ...
+ transparency effect: settings->colors->transparency effects
+ Fira code
+ glassit and shell mods
+ wallpaper
+ Nomo Dark icons

At work
+ vscode2 w/ extensions: azure data lake, glassit, git or devops?, ...
+ teams
+ vs studio
+ power bi
+ azure data studio
+ azure data lake explorer?
+ devops webapp
+ office 365

SAT JUL 20
----------
sbt-dotty-simple  
> run think4e.Shell
2

Habits to break for scala
there is no "new"


FRI JUL 19
----------
https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/tips-and-tricks

ADL On vscode notes
-------------------
install the tools as directed post extension
adl login
adl ...

THU JUL 18
----------
 "Conflicting imperatives... might well drive us mad, but they also spawn creativity, and even art. Faced with an impossible choice – a ‘koan’ as Zen Buddhists call it – you will be forced to revolutionise the way you think in order to move on."

WED JUL 17
----------
Denotation Types

Strong vs Dynamic typing
+ better tooling/code completion
+ better performance
+ helps reduce likelihood of some types of errors
+ compile time vs run time

Dynamic Typing
+ succinct/less verbose
+ more tolerant to change

TUE JUL 16
----------
VUCA: Volatility, uncertainty, complexity, and ambiguity

MON JUL 15
----------
The Current Users Startup folder in Windows 10 is located at:

C:\Users\Username\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup

HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run

SUN JUL 14
----------
Q: Why not just add ML to systems?
A: The desire to add ML before even incorporating feedback or rules into the system is a big leap. And knowing where to add it. Seems like one would have to go through those steps even if making the leap. That is what closed loop systems do, they incorporate feedback like a Thermostat, guidance system, etc.

SAT JUL 13
----------
vscode
 "terminal.integrated.cwd": ""

vs code
[X] customizations
[X] F#
[X] Ubuntu WSL from app store
    Powershell as admin
    > Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux

    
[X] Scala/Dotty for vs code

    Really just need SBT to bootstrap almost everything except IDE and JDK.

    Three parts
    1. OPENJDK 8: prereq for SBT
    [ ] adopt open jdk 8 https://adoptopenjdk.net/

    2. SBT
    https://www.scala-sbt.org/1.x/docs/Setup.html
    [ ] SBT 1.13 
    [ ] Add to env path for sbt: C:\Program Files (x86)\sbt\bin
    
    3. IDE
    https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=lampepfl.dotty


Launch
    start vscode
    cd ./core in powershell
    sbt launchIDE

FRI JUL 12
----------
Reimage Windows 10 Checklist
[X] Commit and push all repos
[X] Make sure OneDrive is synced
[X] Gather installs; cisco
[X] D/L win 10 1903
[X] Prepare installation media and installs
[ ] VScode mods

XMind
Visual Studio
VS Code
Office 365
Visio

Azure Data Studio

Just try to get a flow and focus going.

Most of the wonderful places in the world were not made by architects but by the people. 
Christopher Alexander

The basic problems with data include obsession with primitive types and defaulting to NULL. 

: strings (varchar), ints, decimals, longs, .... And we too often default to NULL. We can't trust that a string is a ValidEmail. It's even worse from an application data perspective.

apply: In mathematics and computer science, Apply is a function that applies functions to arguments. 

Little bit like Invoke in C#, but more elegant

THU JUL 11
----------
Setters and getters

Two main issues:
1. Logic in getter; otherwise fine.
2. Setter in general

Problems
+ Mutation
+ Validation logic embedded sometimes but no result

Alternatives
+ don't use setter
+ apply in functional programming
+ immutable types

WED JUL 10
----------
Use cases: I like them but they're not the only way to describe the problem statement. The problem statement is the important thing.  It can be reframed.

Need suggestions for reframing. A list.

Reframing techniques
+ Simplify
+ Side step: Avoid the hard part
+ Restrict
+ Work backwards from desired outcome and restate
+ 

TUE JUL 9
---------
Kent Beck's Evolution Path

Perhaps, a better description: 
succession strategy; the succession problem: how do you get there safe and efficiently?

1. Leap
2. Parallel
3. Stepping Stone
4. Simplification



MON JUL 8
---------
Reducing pain in software dev
[ ] Exceptions vs returns
[ ] Apply vs validation
[X] Setters and getters; what's wrong
[X] Succession Problem

SUN JUL 7
---------
[ ] New password scheme
[X] Problem Statement and proof/demonstration

SAT JULY 6
----------
Searching for clarity.



FRI JULY 5
----------
Injured foot. Ice.

THU JULY 4
----------
Back from Texhoma with Ainse. Hurt my foot.

WED JUL 3
---------
Texhoma with brother. Kayacking. Golf cart parade.

TUE JUL 2
---------
Pool time.

"Most of the wonderful places in the world were not made by architects but by the people." - 
Christopher Alexander

MON JUL 1
---------
Be grateful. No one is promised tomorrow.

What's the simplest thing that could possibly work? -
Ward Cunningham

SUN JUN 30
----------
House sitting. I need a better kitchen.

Pool time. And grillin; outdoor kitchen at friend's house.

SAT JUN 29
----------
OO: Test and mutate. Green. Test and mutate. Green. And then failure in production.

Let the grillin and chillin commence.

FRI JUN 28
----------
Q: How can one map reqs to solns better? Problem frames?
Probably would lead to better decision making. And efficiencies.

State the requirement as a problem. Problem Frame. Give ability to reframe -- greatess efficiencies

Separate the problem from solutions.

Problem solving is human nature.

What problem are you trying to solve?
Why?
Can the problem be reframed? Benefits.


THU JUN 27
----------
Q: Scala 3 or Ocaml (F#, ReasonML, ...)?
Scala 3. Typeclasses above generics. Provenly correct type system. Spark.

Ocaml: 

WED JUN 26
----------
Q: What is the ultimate battlefield?
The mind
 

TUE JUN 25
----------
Q: What is the american dream?
The american dream has at it's core the promise that happiness is just one product away.

MON JUN 24
----------
A: Does war make govt's stronger?
War makes governments stronger and citizens more compliant. There are more people working in PR and progaganda than journalism. 


SUN JUN 23
----------
Be more confident in your code.

Partiality. May return null. Or not at all.

Either can give you a reason for the failure. Not a none as with Option.

Ability to lower your blood pressure is one of the best features of functional programming.


SAT JUN 22
----------
Event stream processing vs big big data

As an example, the Spark platform supports both big data and event processing.

The rub: batch vs. esp

Yes. Shared Kernel.

Event Processing
+ Done on individual basis -- 1 customer record
+ Usually closer to real-time
What about?
+ processing 

Big Data
+ Done on all of it 
+ Batch
What about?
+ Analytics, and more


FRI JUN 21
----------
Functional thinking: Eric Norman

Pure Functions: calcs and transformations
Actions: side-effects; can depend on time
Data: based on algebraic types

Time dependent: correct time, correct number of times, only one time 

Phases of functional understanding:

Level 1: functions and transformations, hof

Level 2: actions, functions, and data

Level 3: algebraic types

THU JUN 20
----------
It's 6:00 AM. Do you know where you are?

Alegebraic Types
+ Better model
+ MISU 
+ More model; less code
+ Null ptr

WED JUN 19
----------
Q: What is time? What is it's representation?
A: temporal ordering; usually an instant in time with timezone

Time interval (start end)
Time duration (1 week, 1 quarter, 1 year) sometimes called horizon
Time instant (DateTime.Now)

TUE JUN 18
----------
u-sql: for big jobs, don't have WHERE in final transformation.

MON JUN 17
----------
Time, Clocks, and the Order of Events in a Distributed System. Leslie Lamport. 

SUN JUN 16
----------
Fathers day. Fajitas. Uncle Julios.



SAT JUN 15
----------
In types we trust. With proven type system (now in scala 3), what does that do for ...

FRI JUN 14
----------
When you don't have HttpUtility or Server in C#:
System.Uri.UnescapeDataString

What is simplicity? Simplicity is the shortest path to a solution. 
Ward Cunningham
 


THU JUN 13
----------
Q: How can I/everyone simplify life, maintenance, finances, etc.?
A:

WED JUN 12
----------
[ ] Spectrum

TUE JUN 11
----------
Strategies for incremental feeds:
1. Compare against current state or snapshot
2. Use vercol to get next 
3. 

MON JUN 10
----------
Planning vs ?

4 hrs + in meetings

SUN JUN 9
---------
Need some good new sci-fi. What's coming?


SAT JUN 8
---------
I've done a lot of great transformations. I have a lot to offer and want to leverage that to do more of it with better, more productive terms. Rare gem.

FRI JUN 7
---------
So glad you came. So glad you are still here.

THU JUN 6
---------
Doing good for people is the best way to channel humanity and ego. Making them look good. Showing respect. Sometimes it takes alot of time and money but it's worth it. Don't worry about the credit, worry about the good. Do it for you. And the teaser, 85% of it is wasted. 

Humanity is lost from the basics.


WED JUN 5
---------
Q: What is modern OS?
A:

TUE JUN 4
---------
Lake slow down?

MON JUN 3
---------
Gource
"c:\Program Files\Gource\gource.exe" -s 2 --camera-mode track --user-image-dir c:\source\GourceImages --loop --logo c:\source\GourceImages\someimage.png

SUN JUN 2
---------
"Quiet people have the loudest minds." - Stephen Hawking

That does not mean that I am indifferent or uncaring.

SAT JUN 1
---------
Grace Hopper Quotes
The most dangerous phrase in the language is, "We've always done it this way."
"You don't manage people; you manage things. You lead people." - Grace Hopper

FRI MAY 31
----------
null vs empty string problem. 
generally just w/ data. u-sql creates empty strings by default. so during comparison one could be null and one empty and would show as a diff.

Understand. Challenge. Deliver.

THU MAY 30
----------
[X] Msg Heather

Modelling Time - Eric Evans Notes
Concepts 
    Instant
    Interval
    Duration
    TimeZone
    Chronology
    Period
    plus
    start end
    before after

Legacy Blindness

    Representing time to millisecond 

The main thing about a model is it's usefulness. and understandability.

WED MAY 29
----------
Q: Suspicious of pineapple with hidden ssid?

Find hidden ssid: 
$ ifconfig 
$ sudo airmon-ng start wlan0
$ sudo airodump-ng mon0
where mon0 is the device mentioned in start

once bssid is identified
sudo airodump-ng -c 1 --bsssid xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx mon0

TUE MAY 28
----------
Ubuntu: set screentimeout for 2 hrs
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.session idle-delay 7200

MON MAY 27
----------
EQ: if you don't take charge of your emotions, they will take charge of you.

Process your emotions: Take authority of your thoughts with words not thoughts.

SUN MAY 26
----------
Chicken Dinner.

SAT MAY 25
----------
Casandra. Lambda. Scala. -> DataBricks

FRI MAY 24
----------
The essense of software development could be composition.

THU MAY 23
----------
Growing up with just brothers. Perhaps, really good brothers. Stupid, sometimes disrectful behavior. But at times, the most admirable behavior of all times.


WED MAY 22
----------
Q: What is the best way to define a refinement type in Scala 3.0? Refined?
A: Options: trait class w/ apply+, use refined fx, some new 3.0 feature 

Q: 
A: 

Kudos to K
Thank you for your insightful analysis and everything you do for ! Impressive: how much the client likes you and how you talk through problems

TUE MAY 21
----------
Humanity: it's where we're at.

**Refinement Types**
 
refinement type = base type + predicate
values of a refinement type = all values of the base type that satisfy the predicate

MON MAY 20
----------
The thing is: I see a lot more than XYZ.

SUN MAY 19
----------
In high school psychology, I thought Freud over simplified; now I don't.

SAT MAY 18
----------
Big Data: you always have to do some heavy lifting before you get to the ML part.  

FRI MAY 17
----------
http://192.168.0.32:4040/jobs/

THU MAY 16
----------
Spark
By starting shell, it starts other needed services such as website/jobs.

WED MAY 15
----------
Grateful for Ka in her BA role with MarTech projects at CK. Was part time on project which must have felt like full-time. Thankful for what she has done and helped me with blind spots many times. But most of all, is how much our partner respects her, appreciates her, needs her, and asks her for guidance. She's been there for many deliverables including mobile 3.0. BA role can make a huge impact. Perhaps more than any other role. Thank you.

TUE MAY 14
----------
Low EQ

They believe the world is against them, and that it’s never their fault. They can’t deal with frustration or manage their emotions, so they are prone to combative, aggressive, and at times, manipulative behavior in order to bully others into getting what they want.

https://www.aconsciousrethink.com/5098/deal-emotionally-unintelligent-people/  
                                         
If escape is not an immediate option, you can take the following steps to protect yourself from the low EQ family, friends and neighbors in your life.

Don’t engage. When it comes to family, or neighbors, while you can’t completely ignore them, you can certainly disengage. They can only continue their hurtful behavior if they’re getting a response. If you act disinterested, or stop responding, they will realize they’re having a conversation with themselves and go where they’re sure to get a reaction. People with low EQ are selfish, so if the conversation no longer revolves around them, and they are no longer getting the attention they crave, they will disappear and get it elsewhere.

Talk it out, act on it. Alternatively, when you can’t run, or the stakes are too high, it may be best to stand your ground and talk it out. This is especially the case in close family situations where it’s a parent or sibling who is being hurtful. Point out when they are overstepping your boundaries, how they make you feel, and what you will do if they continue this behavior. Then follow through every time the behavior rears its ugly head. People with low EQ don’t tend to have great listening skills, so sometimes the best way to get through to them, and protect yourself, is by establishing firm consequences for bad behavior.

MON MAY 13
----------
Q: how to simply the dramatic complexity of enterprise systems? oltp. dw. data mart. 
A: Use Cassandra as enterprise scalable data solution with Spark as answer for big data analysis.
Real-time processing. Globally scalable persistence. Hadoop if needed. Kafka if messsaging is needed.

SUN MAY 12
----------
Recursion with Tail Call Optimization

Supports:
Scala, Kotlin, Racket, F#, Haskell, Erlang, Elixir, Scheme, Prolog, Caml, OCaml, newest JavaScript spec

No reliable support:  
JavaScript, Swift, Python, Ruby, Clojure, Rust, Go, C++, C, Pascal, R, Everything else by default?

SAT MAY 11
----------
Even with my few modern computers, I'm so far advanced compared to 25 years ago. I have a whole data center. And access to a super computer. Really no excuses to compute just about anything.

My Spark Environment
http://192.168.0.32:4040/jobs/

My Ubuntu Spark/Scala Setup
--------------------------
My notes on how to set up Spark/Scala environment. This uses dotty scala 3.0 which has not been released yet.

Spark:  spark-2.4.3
Java:   openjdk-8-jdk
        Later versions could be issue for cansandra
Scala:  dotty-0.14.0-RC1
        Must be > 0.13.0-RC1 (1st 3.0 version to support spark)
SBT:    sbt-1.2.8
Cassandra: 
VSCode: 

**Spark Installation**
Step 1: Download Spark
----------------------
wget http://apache.claz.org/spark/spark-2.4.3/spark-2.4.3-bin-hadoop2.7.tgz

Step 2: Place uncompressed Spark  
-------------------------------
tar -xzf spark-2.4.3-bin-hadoop1.tgz
sudo mkdir /home/hadoop
sudo mkdir /home/hadoop/work
mv spark-2.4.3.tgz /home/hadoop/work/spark-2.4.3-bin-hadoop2.7

Step 3: Modify your .bashrc to include path to include Spark
----------------------------------------------------------
vi ~/.bashrc
export SPARK_HOME=/home/hadoop/work/spark-2.4.3-bin-hadoop2.7
export PATH=$PATH:$SPARK_HOME/bin

Step 4: Configure /conf/spark-env.sh
-----------------------------------
cd conf
cp spark.env.sh.template spark-env.sh

/conf/spar-env.sh
export SPARK_MASTER_IP=<ip here>
export SPARK_WORKER_CORES=1
export SPARK_MEMORY=1g
export SPARK_WORKER_INSTANCES=2
export SPARK_WORKER_DIR=/home/home/spark_work_Dir

**Java Installation**

Step 1: Default open jdk 8
--------------------------
sudo apt install openjdk-8-jdk
 
**Scala Installation**

Step 1: Download Scala
---------------------
wget https://github.com/lampepfl/dotty/releases/download/0.14.0-RC1/dotty-0.14.0-RC1.tar.gz
 

Step 2: Place uncompressed Scala into /home/hadoop
-------------------------------------------
tar -xvf dotty-0.14.0-RC1.tar.gz
sudo mv dotty-0.14.0-RC1 /home/hadoop/work/dotty-0.14.0-RC1

Step 3: Install for other tooling
--------------------------------
sudo apt-get install scala

Step 4: Install SBT
-------------------
https://piccolo.link/sbt-1.2.8.tgz

Step 5: Modify .bashrc to include path to include Scala
------------------------------------------------------
vi ~/.bashrc
export SCALA_HOME=/home/hadoop/work/dotty-0.14.0-RC1
export PATH=$PATH:$SCALA_HOME/bin

**Casandra**
Step 1: Update PPA
echo "deb http://www.apache.org/dist/cassandra/debian 311x main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/cassandra.sources.list 

curl https://www.apache.org/dist/cassandra/KEYS | sudo apt-key add - 

Step 2: Manually add key and update
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver pool.sks-keyservers.net --recv-key A278B781FE4B2BDA
sudo apt-get update 

Step 3: Install
sudo apt-get install cassandra  

**Spark Cansandra Connector**
Step 1: Install via spark-shell
$SPARK_HOME/bin/spark-shell --packages datastax:spark-cassandra-connector:2.4.0-s_2.11

More Info::
https://github.com/datastax/spark-cassandra-connector/

**Test Launch**
Step 1: Launch spark-shell
-------------------------
spark-shell

Spark session available as 'spark'.
Welcome to
      ____              __
     / __/__  ___ _____/ /__
    _\ \/ _ \/ _ `/ __/  '_/
   /___/ .__/\_,_/_/ /_/\_\   version 2.4.3
      /_/

Using Scala version 2.11.12 (OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM, Java 11.0.3)
Type in expressions to have them evaluated.
Type :help for more information.

scala> 

Step 2: Launch scala
--------------------
scala

Welcome to Scala 2.11.12 (OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM, Java 11.0.3).
Type in expressions for evaluation. Or try :help.

scala>  

Step 3: Launch dotc
-------------------
dotc -version

Dotty compiler version 0.14.0-RC1 -- Copyright 2002-2019, LAMP/EPFL

Step 4: Launch SBT
------------------
sbt

References
----------
http://www.codebind.com/linux-tutorials/install-scala-sbt-java-ubuntu-16-04/
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BozSL9ygUto

https://spark.apache.org/downloads.html


FRI MAY 10
----------
My immediate future: Big data and stream processing. ML. 
 

THU MAY 9
---------
Golf cancelled. But will be another time.

Embrace your current problem. There will always be another. Embrace or avoid. But you always have one to embrace.

WED MAY 8
---------
Avenger's Endgame outing Cinemark team. Only peed once. Pizza and beer. Indelible time. 1st time I could identify with Thor. ;-)

TUE MAY 7
---------
Linux kernel in windows. If I can install scala, cassandra, kafka, and databricks then would be success. Possibly use vscode ext SSH remote to control or maybe directly in this case.

MON MAY 6
---------
Build 2019.

SUN MAY 5
---------
Hike. 

Quantum. Materialism.

SAT MAY 4
---------
Einstein's Papers
1. Explained photo-electric effect by the existence of photons
2. Proved the existence of atoms. and calced size.
3. Special Theory of Relativity.
4. E=MC^2 Fundamental relationship between matter/energy

FRI MAY 3
---------
Realize slack/teams is just not not conducive to some people's style! Use email/phone. Or better in-person. It's too fast and furious. I've learned this lesson before.

THU MAY 2
---------
Be kind. Show respect. 

WED MAY 1
---------
https://ifconfig.co/ip


TUE APR 30
----------
https://www.tweaking4all.com/software/linux-software/use-xrdp-remote-access-ubuntu-14-04/
0

MON APR 29
----------
vnc from windows to ubuntu
sudo gsettings set org.gnome.Vino require-encryption false

SUN APR 28
----------
I need an apt install list.

apt-get install fonts-fira?
apt-get 
apt-get nmap


Snaps
VS Code

Scala/DataBricks

SAT APR 27
----------
5 other species of humans existed. The species that had a stronger behavioral drive that led to more complex systems won. This was driven by what Freud called one of the two main high level behavior drivers and later dewey said it as: the need to feel important. Essentially, the species that was the most full of itself killed all the others.  

> sudo nmap -sP 192.168.1.0/24

FRI APR 26
----------
Here is a little Friday productivity tip no matter your role. 

Since Windows 10 build 17666, it now includes clipboard history. You can turn on by going to settings -> system -> clipboard.

It helps with the flow. You don't have to go back and forth when selection and pasting ips, guids, snapshots, etc. I used to use open source product but now included in Windows.

THU APR 25
----------
paste buffer history now included since Windows 10 build 17666. settings -> system -> clipboard. i think it helps with the flow. pasting guids, ips, etc. i used to use open source ditto but don't need it anymore.

WED APR 24
----------
Simba

    it could probably help get something going but don't think it's a good long-term strategy.
    or even medium term
​
    also from developer perspective, we want to learn actual systems.

TUE APR 23
----------
> sudo apt-get install arc-theme

Full transparency
http://tipsonubuntu.com/2018/11/12/make-app-window-transparent-ubuntu-18-04-18-10/

VS Code
> sudo 

MON APR 22
----------
Arc Theme
https://github.com/horst3180/Arc-theme


SUN APR 21
----------
Q: Are all linux distros compromised by state actors in some way? In other words, a state actor...

A:



SAT APR 20
----------
Edge insider is nice.
edge://flags

Follow os theme to enable

Elementary OS on E
elementary-tweak

Now Installing deepin

FRI APR 19
----------
Scala: follow java except for the following:
+ file names are usually classes, in scala lowercase package name; fits better with scala 3.0

Corresponding test for module: test.somedomain.modulename

THU APR 18
----------
A basic principle behind RSA is the observation that it is practical to find three very large positive integers e, d and n such that with modular exponentiation for all integers m (with 0 ≤ m < n):

(m^e)^d = m (mod n)

and that even knowing e and n or even m it can be extremely difficult to find d.

In addition, for some operations it is convenient that the order of the two exponentiations can be changed and that this relation also implies:

(m^d)^e = m (mod n)

Encryption
c = m^e (mod n)

Decryption
c^d=(m^e)^d (mod n)

Rainbow Primes

WED APR 17
----------
Q: Why is it better to generally embrace problems?
A: We're wired to solve them. It's an opportunity. It's motivating to have a difficult one.

=> don't bandaid them. solve them. 5 whys. look for opportunities. need to limit your focus. not good to have too many. prioritize. solve them, don't create them.


TUE APR 16
----------
Q: Is software designed not to work forever?
A: Certs, Y2K, 2039, Supporting platform, udpates, security patches,

MON APR 15
----------
Q: Why is software so fragile?

SUN APR 14
----------
Q: I don't get it?  
A: Do you need more details? What don't you understand? The concepts? The relationships? Unable to grok because beyond own value system? What is blocker?

Can be substitution for I don't agree but disguised as a question.



SAT APR 13
----------
Common Pattern: Complain, blame, and shame. 

Alternative: Separate the Problem Statement from people, 5 Whys, Actions.

FRI APR 12
----------
Key Distribution problem is one of the oldest in cryptography. PKE solved it -- mostly.

THU APR 11
----------
The Masters.

WED APR 10
----------
pattern: complain, blame, shame.


TUE APR 9
---------
C:\Source\Repos\gitlab\think4me

MON APR 8
---------
Got 3rd in bracket.

SUN APR 7
---------
It is not tragic when something bad happens, because if you learn to use it right it can buy you a ticket to a place you would have never gotten to.  

SAT APR 6
---------
[X] Corda Test

Corda Certified Developer
R3
April 2019
https://www.youracclaim.com/badges/450f1aea-e513-4db1-a5bd-a84f9d9383b7/linked_in_profile

FRI APR 5
---------
PowerShell: rename all

> Get-Item -Path ./* | Rename-Item -NewName {$_.BaseName+ '_sample' +$_.Extension} -WhatIf

[X] Send $10 to James for bracket
 

THU APR 4
---------
AirPods Case

Red light is charging for case
Green light is charging for Airpods

WED APR 3
---------
....insurance.... hey when i did my taxes, I got to deduct thousands because our insurance premiums are so expensive, and that last tax "cut" bill lowered the health spending deduction limit to 7.5% of your income from 10%

TUE APR 2
---------
The reason why a lot of people are working those longer hours, is not because there’s 12 hours of work to do, it’s because they can’t find time within those 12 hours to actually get a few contiguous hours of time to actually do the work they need to do. So their work is spread across so many different things in so many different places in a given day, that they can’t piece it together in a relatively short period of time. So it’s spread out and that’s why people are working longer, it’s not that there’s more work to do.

- Jason Fried.

MON APR 1
---------
Open source solutions are now embraced by the whole industry.

SUN MAR 31
----------
5 Whys
Q: Why do we keep doing the same thing over and over?
A: Perceived as safer/proven; more efficient.

Q: Why is it perceived as safer/proven?
A: Because software is so unreliable and does need to be proven.

Q: Why is software so unreliable?
A: Type system. Mutability. No one can grok it.

Q: Why is software so hard to grok?
A: Understanding state. For example, just the combination of 6 32 bit integers is more atoms than in universe. And state changes.

Q: How can type system and mutability add to unreliability? 
A: We have focus on primitive types such as string for email. Null-pointer. $6 billion dollar mistake. Composability.

SAT MAR 30
----------
pubg: Winner winner chicken dinner.

You have been chosen.

FRI MAR 29
----------
cd core
sbt launchIDE

THU MAR 28
----------
Q: What happens when you find data that is surprising?
A: Double check, verify data source, analyze, ...


WED MAR 27
----------
https://media.licdn.com/dms/document/C4E1FAQHrL-iBCKNJ3Q/feedshare-document-pdf-analyzed/0?e=1553738400&v=beta&t=2xxPhesD23-Q8Ntii9-YAJxQXy2q5DBbaua1h9mvxJs

TUE MAR 26
----------
Client/Project Q: If it were X months in the future and I were leaving my project, what would I wish I did more?

Buddha bowl: spinach, chickpeas, brown rice/quinoa mix

MON MAR 25
----------
It takes just one line of code to screw up. It's a lot of pressure.

SUN MAR 24
----------
Too old. Too young. No. We are one.

I want to focus more. Not by squinting harder or ..., but leveraging some better process.

SAT MAR 23
----------
If you follow best practices and dogma religiously then your project will go to heaven when it dies no matter the reason. Ask why more.

FRI MAR 22
----------
Problem Frame

Problem Statement
Why?

Reframe alternatives (5 Whys)

Solution Alternatives

Decision
We chose X, accepting downside Y in support of Z.

THU MAR 21
----------
Gonzaga in my bracket.

requirements and product owners: can't separate what from how. and never a why.

WED MAR 20
----------
Dogma, best practices
All you have to do is follow best practices and dogma religiously and then you will be able to go to project heaven when your project dies. 

TUE MAR 19
----------
Buddha bowl today: pinto, rice, avacado and cilantro

MON MAR 18
----------
vs code; new scala 3 gives phantom warning for top-level opaque type.

SUN MAR 17
----------
CORDA Key points/Differences
+ Historical states are not considered on the ledger.

SAT MAR 16
----------
Key takeaways

The Corda network is best represented as a fully-connected graph containing nodes.
There is no global broadcast or gossip network on Corda.
Corda nodes discover each other via a network map service. 
Each Corda node includes a vault, and every vault contains facts.
These facts can be shared with other nodes on the network.
The Corda Ledger is subjective from each peer's perspective.

FRI MAR 15
----------
Corda Concepts
--------------
Corda Notary Pool

How to prevent double spends?
Nodes only see hash

Allows private transaction
Between legally-identifiable entities

THU MAR 14
----------
Corda Key Concepts on Lessonly: https://r3.lessonly.com/path/5150-corda-key-concepts/login?view=signu
Corda Developer Training:  https://www.udemy.com/corda-development/ 
Corda Documentation:  https://docs.corda.net/ 
Corda Certification: https://corda-certification.myshopify.com/products/corda-standard-certification-test

WED MAR 13
----------
OU vs WV

TUE MAR 12
----------
paste buffer history now included since Windows 10 build 17666. settings -> system -> clipboard. i think it helps with the flow. pasting guids, ips, etc. i used to use open source ditto but don't need it anymore. 

MON MAR 11
----------
[X] convert

SUN MAR 10
----------
Scala 3.0: top level definitions


SAT MAR 9
---------
https://hurrythefoodup.com/how-to-make-a-buddha-bowl/

FRI MAR 8
---------
Buddha Bowl: a grain, a green, and a bean.

THU MAR 7
---------
@counts =
    SELECT DISTINCT risk, result, 
           COUNT( * ) OVER(PARTITION BY [risk], result) AS counts
    FROM @emails;

WED MAR 6
---------
working hard with no progress is demoralizing. but if you solve the problem then it's all better.

it's like we're wired to solve problems. i think there might be something valuable to organizing the work around it some how
​
it's motivating too
​
framing the work as a problem
​
seems to tee up the creativity that way too bc creativity is problem solving -- usually with big contraints

TUE MAR 5
---------
OU 81 Kansas 68

MON MAR 4
---------
Need to eat vegan. Or at least healhty vegetarian diet. How? When?

SUN MAR 3
---------
Corda Key Concepts on Lessonly: https://r3.lessonly.com/path/5150-corda-key-concepts/login?view=signu
Corda Developer Training:  https://www.udemy.com/corda-development/ 
Corda Documentation:  https://docs.corda.net/ 
Corda Certification: https://corda-certification.myshopify.com/products/corda-standard-certification-test


SAT MAR 2
---------
CORDA CERT?

5 chicken dinners

FRI MAR 1
---------
Sci-Fi
    CounterPart
    Utopia

THU FEB 28
----------
Meet & Eat at 12

WED FEB 27
----------
I care about culture, model, and strategy. 

TUE FEB 26
----------
Mr. Robot Season 4: Summer 2019

MON FEB 25
----------
Sell dreams not products.

SUN FEB 24
----------
From Transcendence
Do you want to create god?
... Isn't that what man has aways created? 

SAT FEB 23
----------
Don’t anthropomorphize computers. They hate that! 

THU FEB 21
----------
Knotting Place Banquet.

WED FEB 20
----------
vscode w/ adl

TUE FEB 19
----------
Use
Assembly Registration - “ADL: Register Assembly” 
In vscode

MON FEB 18
----------
ScalaTest and ScalaCheck are avail in 3 now.
 
Q: Why do programmers don't like to go outside?
A: Because there are too many bugs.

SUN FEB 17
----------
Q: How to improve your creativity and productivity?

Accidental Creative Notes
Organize your world with a weekly checkpoint

Creative and productivity requires a rhythm. And eb and flow.
Install intentional checkpoints.

We need to incorporate what we learn.

Checkpoints creates traction. Creates friction. **They clarify opportunities.**

Don't let your systems become your master. Systems serve us.

5 Core Elements of Rhythm

FRESH
-----
Focus: how to allocate finite attention; be purposeful; q: within this project, what problem or set of problems am I tryhing to solve? All creative work is problem solving; easier to gain traction if you are focused on problems; our minds are wired to solve problems
Relationships: when we busy, relationships can fall to the waste side; Any open loops? Anyone you need to connect to ? Who are you going to inspire and push for the week? We need others to help us be as good as we can be.
Energy: what can you get rid of. rhythm. we are often good at managing time, but awful at managing energy. we tend to just add things.
Stimuli: gotta put great stuff in your head to create great stuff. to combine and sythensize
Hours: create time to think about our work; a step back. Unnecessary creating or backburning creating. Do something to grow or challenge yourself.

15 Minute Review each week; Sunday recommended

The understanding of the problem will evolve

The Big 3: 3 most pressing problems of the week

How to create time for deep work? Have a daily theme.

SAT FEB 16
----------
Spent day with brother talking, walking, and driving by the lake. Kyacks next time. Too cold.

Notes: How to step out of your comfort zone. Accidental Creative.
Comfort is one of the most suductive forces on the planet.

When we take comfort over at expense of great work, we are not growing - taking chances - not pushing - not trying.

The poet.
“Verily the lust for comfort murders the passion of the soul, and then walks grinning in the funeral.” 

― Khalil Gibran, The Prophet 

Cause of the loss of passion. 
The love of comfort is often the enemy of greatness in our lives.

FRI FEB 15
----------
Columns:
Who (role), What, When, What, Where, How

What did actor - do to what - when - where


THU FEB 14
----------
Valentines day. 


WED FEB 13
----------
In 20 years, will you know what is real?

TUE FEB 12
----------
The moth don't care if the flame is real. The moth believes in an after glow.

MON FEB 11
----------
The old maxim. if you can't beat them, join them. A.I.

SUN FEB 10
----------
pubg winner

SAT FEB 9
---------
2016 Lincoln

Lead with trust. 

Steven Coveys speed of trust.
13 Behaviors.
1. Talk Straight
2. Demonstrate Respect
3. Create Transparency
4. Right Wrongs
5. Show Loyalty
6. Deliver Results
7. Get Better
8. Confront Reality
9. Clarify Expectations
10. Practice Accountability
11. Listen First
12. Keep Commitments
13. Extend Trust

FRI FEB 8
---------
These views are my own. But not the models and controllers.

THU FEB 7
---------
https://www.ccn.com/190m-gone-how-canada-biggest-bitcoin-exchange-lost-it

Do you know what is real? What about in 20 years?

WED FEB 6
---------
Scala Module
+ types as MISU
+ functions, HOF
+ possible: context parameters
+ possible: actor <- commands -> side-effects

TUE FEB 5
---------
u-sql: when you need a scalar such as last_vercol use CROSS JOIN @ji

MON FEB 4
---------
Notes: How to abstract over context by Martin Odersky
----------------------------------------------------
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uiorT754IwA&index=8&t=0s&list=PLDxoMMAEmpqTea71WDnk9bG-HSe0soEIE

**Context is all around us**
+ the current configuration
+ the current scope
+ the security level in effect
+ the user on behalf of which an operation is performed

**Traditional ways to express context**
+ globals
    rigid if immutable
    unsafe if mutable
+ monkey patching (subclassing, nortel switch)
+ dependency injection
    at runtime
    or with macros
+ cake pattern
    close coupling + recursion

**implicit parameters**
def f(a: A)(implicit b: B)

implicit val b = B()

**context parameters**
def f(a: A)(implicit b: B)

In Scala 3.0, is now express as

def f(a: A) with (b: B)
or
def f(a: A) with B

instance ctx for Context { ... }
f("abc")
f("abc") with ctx

Summoning an instance
def summon[T] with (x: T) = x

**context parameters: use cases**
+ prove theorems
+ implement type classes
+ establish context
+ set configuration
+ inject dependencies
+ model capabilities

**Curry Howard isomporphism**
Types = Theorems
Programs = Proofs

D.I.
Needed due more to the inability to do effective composition

SUN FEB 3
---------
Scala.js 
ScalaTags
Need dual themed css; simple; light dark

Implicits and Contexts
----------------------
Use implicit parameters but almost never implicit conversions.

There are different mechanisms used to support context such as dependency injection, etc.
Implicits in scala support context in a more elegant way.

Implicit is the cononical way to represent contexts such as configuration, access rights, etc.

Aims of Dotty
+ Work out essence of scala
+ strengthen core
+ drop non-essentials

Essential: Foundations
+ Make progress with strong formal foundations
+ The DOT calculus captures the essense of Scala

DOT: Dependent Object Types
The Essence of Dependent Object Types

Looks like they are now called context parameters and have superseeded implicit parameters

SAT FEB 2
---------
https://gitlab.com/gcowin/
git clone https://oauth2:ACCESS_TOKEN@somegitlab.com/vendor/package.git

FRI FEB 1
---------
Scala 3.0 Union Types
opaque type = A | B

THU JAN 31
----------
Programming Popularity Sources
PYPL: http://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html
GitHut: https://githut.info/
IEEE Spectrum: https://spectrum.ieee.org/at-work/innovation/the-2018-top-programming-languages
TIOBE: https://www.tiobe.com/tiobe-index/
Top Websites: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_languages_used_in_most_popular_websites

FP Languages
At PYPL this month, Scala is at #15 and none of the others show up.
At GitHut, Scala is at #12, Clojure is at #21, Elixir is at #24, and F# is at #37.
At IEEE Spectrum, Scala is at #15, Clojure is at #40, and none of the other show up.
What we can conclude is that only Scala is reasonably popular. All the other FP languages are relatively obscure.



WED JAN 30
----------
Sometimes we just think about what is next and not how the machine works. We need to BC some of us has seen how the machine works.

"Defining clear outcomes is not some fad." - Jody Thompson 

FBI Negotiator
--------------
**If you punish people for making mistakes, then there will be no learning in your organization. Because learning is about mistakes.**

The Challenge: have quality back-and-forth. Quality conversation. Quality disagrement. Quality shots.

The ultimate question: how are you going to help me? you are here. you are there. you don't know. you ...

If we do these things... we will get to x by y.

Provide insight.

Do you see what i see?

The problem with yes. Would you like to make more money? 
Yes is always a trap.
Yes mode.
Little yes' lead to big yes'.
Study says it works, but it doesn't.
You get a counterfeit yes.
Ask a no question

Give people respect and appreciation.


TUE JAN 29
----------
Better word/alternative/synonym for d*uchebag: tool, chode, schmuck, knob, bottom feeder, dolt, bonehead, clod

superficial, narcissistic behavior, superiority complex, 

Perhaps, **unauthentic** would be better feedback.

Superiority complex
-------------------
 is a psychological defense mechanism that compensates for an inferiority complex. The term was coined by Alfred Adler as part of his school of individual psychology. Afred Adler. Austrian psychotherapist

 "If a person is a show-off, it is only because he feels inferior because he does not feel strong enough to compete with others on the useful side of life. That is why he stays on the useless side. He is not in harmony with society. It seems to be a trait of human nature that when individuals – both children and adults – feel weak, they want to solve the problems of life in such a way as to obtain personal superiority without any admixture of social interest. A superiority complex is a second phase. It is a compensation for the inferiority [feeling] complex."

 Dunning-Kruger Effect: people of low ability have illusory superiority and mistakenly assess the cognitive ability as grater than it is.

 probably most dangerous: god complex. 

MON JAN 28
----------
DBs:
Once you do an update, it is no longer a source of truth but a projection

“What will your future customers pay you for?”

SUN JAN 27
----------
computer nerd: Would rather struggle with an electronic box than a world of unpredictable people. -- Cringely

Scala Enum
Options
    Use Scala Enumeration
    Mimic enumerations using Scala sealed case objects.
    Use Scalaz Enum
    Use Java Enumeration



SAT JAN 26
----------
"Productivity is the new workplace currency." - Jody Thompson

Big Data
Ingest
Transform
Analyze
Decision making/predictions

FRI JAN 25
----------
Scala case class vs case object
------------------------------
Scala case classes are just regular classes which are immutable by default and decomposable through pattern matching.

A case class which has no arguments is declared as case object instead of case class. case object is serializeable by default.


Way to do discriminant union in Scala

trait PaymentMethod
case class CreditCard (number: string, expiration: Date) extends PaymentMethod
case class Cash (amount: decimal) extends PaymentMethod
case class Check (checkNumber : int) extends PaymentMehotd

Null: a Trait
null: an instance of Null- Similar to Java null
Nil: Represents an emptry List of anything of zero length. It's not that it refers to nothing but it refers to List which has no contents
Nothing is a Trait. It's a subtype of everything. But not superclass of anything. There are no instances of Nothing
None: Used to represent a sensible return value. Just to avoid null pointer exception. Option has exactly 2 subclasses- Some and None. None signifies no result from the method.
Unit: Type of method that doesn’t return a value of anys sort
AnyRef == Object in Java

THU JAN 24
----------
sealed trait Option[+E]

case class Some[+E]( element : E ) extends Option[E]
case object None extends Option[Nothing]

WED JAN 23
----------
Scala/Databricks
A notebook is a web-based interface to a document that contains runnable code, visualizations, and narrative text. Notebooks are one interface for interacting with Azure Databricks.

TUE JAN 22
----------
Scala?

MON JAN 21
----------
D.I. in functional languages
https://dev.to/psfeng/dependency-injection-in-functional-programming-3gg4

Elm is nice from fp and ml type perspective.

SUN JAN 20
---------- 
You need more than somebody's question. You need ask for the theory. Theory: to explain a cause and effect in small amount of words.  [Essence]

Good Data Questions
-------------------
Given data question and using ADL, 
What is the theory? explain cause-effect.
What is the hypothesis? how to test theory.
What is the experiment? ...
What are results? ...

Positive: when you get a question ask for theory. then hypothesis. how to test question. engaging and goodpath. 

Negative: asking question in response to question. sometimes you might have to do all of them.

SAT JAN 19
----------
Put negative first and then positive.

Is a bind just an alternative to d.i.?

FRI JAN 18
----------
Theory vs hypothesis
A theory explains a cause-effect relationship nominally, in words. An hypothesis provides a basis for testing a theory by converting those words into measurable variables, which can be codified numerically, from zero-one binary variables to continuous ratio variable  and tested using bivariate or multivariate statistical techniques.


THU JAN 17
----------
you might know of a state you want to get to B. and current state A. A -> B. one real world problem: how to get to B safe and efficiently. the succession problem. - paraphrased from Kent Beck

WED JAN 16
----------
Reflection
Lately, I've been doing a whole lot of reducing (adl) which requires me to do some mapping.

SET TRANSACTION ISOLATION LEVEL READ UNCOMMITTED

TUE JAN 15
----------
https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/keytron/keytron-an-ultra-slim-wireless-mechanical-keyboard?ref=user_menu


Kent beck. The succession problem. Safe and efficiently. A-> B
TCR.

MON JAN 14
----------
Podcast Idea: use public domain only. And good quotes from cs people.

SUN JAN 13
----------
Meta Q: What is your observation, question, or hypothesis? What is the experiment? What are the results?

Perhaps, the mind should never go anywhere without the body. Nah.

SAT JAN 12
----------
Y Combinator
Y = λf.(λx.f(x x)) (λx.f(x x)) 

[X] Start recording an episode!

FRI JAN 11
----------
I want to get past the illusion. The illusion of explanatory depth.

THU JAN 10
----------
Movie features: genre, producer, director, rating, language, actors, (keywords in rating description like violence, sexual, intense, ...), 

WED JAN 9
---------
The Knowledge Illusion

TUE JAN 8
---------
When you trust someone, you know they will give you the kind truth.

MON JAN 7
---------
Incivility in the workplace
66% Cut back their efforts
80% Lost work time
12% Leave

Witness' are affected too
.
Causes
+ Stress
+ 

Civil Leaders
2X


**Snark vs Banter**
I understand banter and snark (had just brothers). Maybe there is a difference. An unhealthy line (classifier).

Defn: Snarky - The act of being sarcastic and dissrespectful.
Defn: Banter - the playful and friendly exchange of teasing remarks.


Q: What is it snarky really?

A: A defense mechanism, Lack of understanding (and wants more), Disrespect, About feeling important (ego)


**Manipulation technique: gas lighting**
is a form of mental abuse in which information is twisted or spun, selectively omitted to favor the abuser, or false information is presented with the intent of making victims doubt their own memory, perception, and sanity.

Q: What is the problem with brutal honesty?

A: Likely more about the brutality than the honesty.

SUN JAN 6
---------
Q: How many of each animal did Noel load onto the arc? 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4?
A: 0. In the story, it wasn't Noel that loaded animals, it was Noah.  

Q: What is the knowledge illusion?
A: The human mind is both brilliant and pathetic.

The Knowledge Illusion - Why we never think alone by Steven Sloman & Philip Fernbach

SAT JAN 5
--------- 
"Essentially, all models are wrong, but some are useful." - George Box

Digital Transformation - wrap you business around your future customer. - JD Meier

"Busy is the new stupid." - Bill Gates

FRI JAN 4
---------
Rules for business: Don't let anyone get between you and your customer. Make money.

I'm violating the 1st one. How do you do it from an app store perspective? I know how you do it from a consulting perspective.

THU JAN 3
---------
Q: K-means cluster w/ a single dimension really just nearest neighbor?
A: Hmm. K-means uses nearest neighbor but with multiple dimensions so seems true.

Hypothsis

Experiment

WED JAN 2
---------
"The problem with object-oriented languages is they've got all this implicit environment that they carry around with them. You wanted a banana but what you got was a gorilla holding the banana and the entire jungle." - Joe Armstrong

TUE JAN 1
---------
Mean nasty people == people in fear