---
layout: post
title: Daily Q 2020
---
**These views are my own. But not the models and controllers.**

Be kind, transparent, open minded, and grateful.



SUN AUG 30
----------
Dev Deconstructed


4.me
    F#

Learning
    certs
    python
    spark

Bitcoin: 51% attack

Q: Who do you work for?
A: Myself and my family. 

SAT AUG 29
----------
Do it for me. Not to prove to them.

Prosperity theology (sometimes referred to as the prosperity gospel, the health and wealth gospel, the gospel of success, or seed faith) is a religious belief among some Protestant Christians that financial blessing and physical well-being are always the will of God for them, and that faith, positive speech, and donations to religious causes will increase one's material wealth.

FRI AUG 28
----------
Bureaucracy Deconstructed

    About 150 years old. 

    Invisible bc everywhere.

    But every org is built based based on it.

    Powers trickles down. Access 

    Toxicities are created because...
    people compete for scarce resources of promotions or go else where for opportunities to create value

    Still a cast system. Those with the creative ideas and the doers.

    Turn human beings as reliable as the machines they served.

    Consolidation of information. Hierarchy was an information processing tool.

    Genius is at HQ with MBAs and top scientists.

    Human centered. Old power structures.

    Are there alternatives?



    Mash up of military command structure and industrial engineering.



    Used because needed to turn human labor into as reliable as the machines they served. Used as communication which was expensive. Goes up and down the hierarchy. Efficient.

    Factors
        Engagement

    As much as we hate it, we can seem to shake it.

    How do you break thru layers of it

    Bureaucracy 

    References
    Breaking Down Bureaucracy and Building up Workers

THU AUG 27
----------
TDDA: Test Driven Data Analysis

    The difference: AAA is not done on an instance but a dataset.

The good from change
+ health
+ reduced stress
+ stillness
+ control



WED AUG 26
----------
Frame Control: 

Judge Frame: if you don't comply, you're not good enough in some way.
Response: reframe. judge them, go meta. explain the way they're framing the problem

Flip the frame's meaning (Frame flipping)

Power Bible.

TUE AUG 25
----------
Problem -> Answer(Soln)
    Problem definition
    Ideation
    Hypothesis
    Experiment or research
    Decision/Context

MON AUG 24
----------
[X] Status
[X] Nature walk

SUN AUG 23
----------
vscode xmind

Think about?
    Methods
    Deconstructions
        Bureaucracy
    Notebooks - Juniper


SAT AUG 22
----------
Bureaucracy Deconstructed

    What is it?

    Fundamentals
    Hierarchy of information and decision making

FRI AUG 21
----------
Python tail recursion mechanism
https://chrispenner.ca/posts/python-tail-recursion

THU AUG 20
----------
Deconstruction Template

    What is it? 
        e.g., planning, object-oriented, 

    What are the features or principles? Fundamentals.

    How is it done today? state of the art practice.

    How did we get here?

    Pause. Zoom out. 1st principles.
        
        What are the goals or problem being solved?

        How can we reframe the problems?

        What is an alternative to meet the goals more directly?

        What contexts does it make sense?

    Explore Questions/Problems/Bias
        questions
        problems
        hypothesis
        data
        experiments
        research

    Conclusion
        Set of futures: thrive, survive, or die
            Quantum leap

    References/URLs/Notes

WED AUG 19
----------
Q: Was Java the most advertised language ever?
A: $500 million in 2003.
http://www.internetnews.com/dev-news/article.php/2221961/McNealy+Takes+Java+on+the+Offensive.htm


TUE AUG 18
----------
Got to see Dad for his b-day. Two full racks of ribs for lunch. Mike and Mom.

MON AUG 17
----------
Planning Deconstructed

Planning as a guestimation of effort and time is far less valuable than planning as the understanding and sequencing of a complex set of futures. A transformation that requires a common understanding of the problem, solution, and work - the steps to get to pt A to pt B.

The key to transformation: get to point b -- safe and efficiently. The succession problem.

Q: If your planning budget is roughly 25% of your development budget, how could it be spent more effectively?
A:

Best Practices and Dogma Deconstructed

TO Dos
[X] Oil change
[X] Modem
[X] Find charger

SUN AUG 16
----------
Dev Deconstructed: 
OO Fundamentals
    Inheritance (Implementation): but composition over inheritance is recommended
    Methods: syntax sugar; circle.grow(3) vs grow(circle, 3)
    Polymorphism: 
        subtyping is a form of polymorphism; + dynamic binding of method calls
    Objects: syntax sugar for structs and procedures
    Encapsulation: just a weaker form of modularity that most modern languages now have
        Explain why?


    Most languages are OO because modularity is a good idea. OO languages got modularity by chance.

    SOLID 
    S ingle responsibility: almost always violated
        define a responsibility to be
        “a reason for change.” If you can think of more than one motive for changing a class, then that class has more than one responsibility. 

    O pen/closed principle: 
        open for extension; closed for modification; 
            but composition over inheritance is recommended
    L iskov substitution rule: this is just about strong typing (good)
    I nterface segregation principle: 
    D ependency inversion principle: 
        one should depend on abstractions not concretions
        doesn't everything depend on an object? or it's just the abstraction


SAT AUG 15
----------
Stillwater trip to see Ainsley. Averton hotel. Wonderful.

Q: Is competition for losers? Ala peter thiel.
A: Competition creates great performance but at a cost. A cost that you stop asking the important questions.


FRI AUG 14
----------
Method:
Please choose to...

There is no I in TEAM. But there is one in dickhead.

Scientific Method

Process Q H P T A
    Formulation of a question (from observations)

    Hypothesis

    Prediction
        This step involves determining the logical consequences of the hypothesis. One or more predictions are then selected for further testing. The more unlikely that a prediction would be correct simply by coincidence, then the more convincing it would be if the prediction were fulfilled; 
    Testing

    Analysis

    Replication

People Really Hate Eating Donuts And Cold Cider
Problem, Research, Hypothesis, Experiment/data {testing}, Analyze, Conclusion, Communicate

consider Beck's 4 sentence abstract
    1st: states the problem
    2cd: states why it is a problem
    3rd: startling sentence
    4th: implications of the startling sentence
    
 
q: where do stories fit?
a: the problem. the hypothesis (surprise? maybe).the challenge. the analysis. the conclusion.

phrases for 
Welcome to Dev Deconstructed with Greg Cowin

The problem Statement

The challenge. How to challenge conventional thinking?

The analysis. What does the analysis show?

The conclusion.

The 5 whys


THU AUG 13
----------
Two main kinds of data
Stream data. Transducers.

Projections.

Making any decision without maximum information is not good.

A transducer is a composable higher-order reducer. It takes a reducer as input, and returns another reducer.

general concept of a higher-order reducer — a transformation of a transformation.

WED AUG 12
----------
Meeting w/ Mike R. 9 at 5.

Transducers
https://medium.com/javascript-scene/transducers-efficient-data-processing-pipelines-in-javascript-7985330fe73d


TUE AUG 11
----------
Walk every day you can.

I'm an old dog that just wants to learn new tricks.

MON AUG 10
----------
Knee hurts. 

Q: What am I going to do with Ainsley at college?
A: Golf?

SUN AUG 9 
---------
Got home at 1 am.

I miss Ainsley.

SAT AUG 8
---------
[X] Move-in day at OSU w/ Ainsley
[X] Dinner at Rancher's club

FRI AUG 7
--------- 
[X] Set up air for A.
    [X] mfa
    [ ] find
    [X] acct

Dev Deconstructed 
Deconstruct development techniques, tools, and practices.

Development Deconstructed
with Greg Cowin

Software Deconstructed
Software Development Deconstructed

THU AUG 6
---------
In additional automated testing, delivery, and operations, we use more formal development and modeling techniques such as ML type system, functional programming, immutability, and formalized requirements to ensure we are doing the right thing. 

Our developers have 

WED AUG 5
---------
Q: How do you scale a consulting agency?
A: High performance culture; learning organization; candor

Q: What not to do?
A: Over-abstract; too much guessing; no feedback; make people feel like a replaceable cog in the org.

Q: What are attributes of high performing teams?
A: Safety. Valued. Have a say. Inclusion. Diversity. Women.

Q: How does learning get incorporated into execution?
A: 

Q:
A:

TUE AUG 4
---------
Q: What do i want day-to-day?
A: ann. fp. big data. remote. 

MON AUG 3
---------
Q: Where's the learning?
A: Optimizing data pipeline from ingress to delivering has been interesting. But I'm not pushing it.

Q: Why so much IO?
A: Exposed. But still high. 

SUN AUG 2
---------
[X] Sprinkler pipe by maple
[X] Remove dead plants
[X] Kitchen floor
[X] Ants in backyard
[X] Laundry 
[X] Trash cans
[X] Turn on sprinkler system


[ ] Talk w/ A
    Mindful
        you are set up for success. you have what it takes.
            tuition
            
            food
            
            macbook air
            
            everything you need to get by well. 

            considering the set of futures, i am worried. 

                worried you will be safe. survive 1st semester. worried you

                your laptop. your car. your grades. you. 

                mostly, it's up to you.

        do you know will take some discipline? 

            embrace it. learning new things. that is what life is about. 

            use study techniques. use mnemonics. understand the concepts. ask why? us other memory techniques. whatever it takes to get thru the tough ones. 

    

    Forward Looking
        social
            interesting new people in your future. but realize most are bent up in their own "need to feel important." 

            be on the look out for the smartest people. befriend them.
            
            don't fall into everyone's bullshit. 
            
            the only opinions that might matter are those that matter to you.

            listen to your professors. listen to your advisors. 

            schedule. plan. recap. 

            don't be cool. especially in phys. when i try to be cool, later i feel like a .

    Dogma
        all of them collapse. sometimes even your own.

        it needs to be beat out of you. maybe by a few professors.

    The focus?
      it's up to you. you'd better take this opportunity and step up you're overall academic game.


    The Mindset?
        Embrace? Growth mindset. 
            Be open-minded.
        
            Listen. Echo. Understand the concepts.

            Learn.


    Reality
        Based on t.f.t. and j.
      
        I'll be there.

        I hope you are a little scared. Use it as fuel to work hard and be smart.

        Don't blow off life. Be present.

        I won't be able to fly up there with a helicopter but I will do whatever I can.


    Positive
        + I give this prescriptive advice because I want to make a difference. At the right time.

        + As always, no matter what happens, I do my best to help you get through it.


        Capabilities
                don't beat yourself up. you are going to make many mistakes. that's life. it's what you do to improve.

                no matter your own self doubts right now, you have the ability to perform at the highest level of just about any domain.

SAT AUG 1
---------
Fira code: ligatures.

Q: Is it God possible from a computational perspective? 
A: Yes. But it would take a long time to have one thought.


FRI JUL 31
----------
[X] Ainsley's ticket! $282.22

THU JUL 30
----------
[X] Macbook Air for Ainsley; arrives by 7/6

WED JUL 29
----------
Imagination is a woefully underutilized resource.

Tyranny of the present.

program whisperer.


WED JUL 29
----------
Scenario planning: the set of futures that are plausible and distinctive. consider forces of change.

TUE JUL 28
----------
Q: As developers, sometimes we test a million things but miss the obvious. Why?
A: Blind spots. Too much faith that mocks and scenarios are covering real world test cases. Not testing the important items. Not testing integration points. 

Q: What to do?
A: pause, zoom out, 1st principles. MISU.  

Q: How to future proof your strategy?
A: Scenario planning. articulate the set of futures that are plausible and distinctive. consider forces of change.

MON JUL 27
----------

Crash Reports
C:\ProgramData\Microsoft\Windows\WER

Start with hope

Corollary: forming a proposition that follows from one already proved.
Proposition: a statement or assertion that expresses a judgment or opinion.

Q: Know what happens when you take the red and blue bill?
A: You see purple.

It's ironic: demands.


SUN JUL 26
----------
F# Sequence
A sequence is a logical series of elements all of one type. Sequences are particularly useful when you have a large, ordered collection of data but do not necessarily expect to use all of the elements. Individual sequence elements are computed only as required, so a sequence can provide better performance than a list in situations in which not all the elements are used.

Infinite Sequence
        let seqInfinite =
            Seq.initInfinite (fun index ->
                Guid.NewGuid())
                //let n = float (index + 1)
                //1.0 / (n * n * (if ((index + 1) % 2 = 0) then 1.0 else -1.0)))
        
        printfn "%A" seqInfinite
        
seq -> pure xform -> seq

Q: What about scenarios where it is I pure I pure I pure O?
A: what about the idea of currying applied to IO? it could be reduced to S pure S, pure S, or S pure

SAT JUL 25
----------
Q: Does a HOF being passed that is not pure make the function not pure?
A: Technically yes. But it can still be tested as a pure function and the benefits of isolation. 

Q: Is there any other way to handle large collections from I/O and maintain purity?  
A: Sequence. But they could use pure HOF.

"I see the toxic vanity of ego at play every day and it never ceases to amaze me how often it wrecks promising creative endeavors." — Marc Ecko, founder of Ecko Unltd and Complex

FRI JUL 24
----------
Q: What time is it?
A: Game time!

Sam Buoy was picked above michael jordan in the draft.

THU JUL 23
----------
It was Castellano that was whacked at Sparks right around the corner from where I used to work while he was out on bail.

WED JUL 22
----------
Take notes on...
    stats for data science
    scientific method (below somewhere)
    sequence/yield

Ideas on functional IO (isolating IO)
    + Sandwich (I pure O); could be open faced (pure O) 
        ref: https://medium.com/walkme-engineering/the-functional-sandwich-principal-e6d138f6a579
        aka: imperative shell with functional core
        Kinds of sandwiches: I pure O, S pure S, IO pure IO, pure S
        Sauce: HOF
    + event sourcing
    + IO Monad
    + Command -> S -> pure -> S

Bounded Context <- Workflow <- Activity

TOFU Basic Red Curry
1 brick firm tofu
basil
red pepper 

onions diced
garlic
ginger
red curry paste

TUE JUL 21
----------
software development and cs: seems to provide an infinite set of interesting puzzles to solve.

MON JUL 20
----------
"Cultivate meaningful work and meaningful relationships." - Ray Dalio

Consulting: Most people are not going to follow your recommendations even if you are considered an expert. But they likely want to hear them.

Perhaps the key: know when someone wants prescriptive advice (just tell me what to do); otherwise, tradeoffs and solution alternatives. No one generally wants to be told what to do anyway.

Another technique: let the person internalize it and be their own soln

SUN JUL 19
----------
Q DEEP DEV

Ask a question? Say it out loud.

Q: If you can move with great speed does that make it right?
A: No.

F# Alternatives to DI
https://blog.ploeh.dk/2017/01/30/partial-application-is-dependency-injection/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52156730/f-analog-of-dependency-injection-for-a-real-project


SAT JUL 18
----------
Q: Prescriptive guidance. People want it. Where to put it? 

A: Perhaps near the beginning with context. Or reveal at the end. Or do they really want to be told what to do? perhaps use a context first where it makes sense. practice pattern.

Agonism: taking a warlike stance in a context that are not literally war.

FRI JUL 17
----------
Most software isn't logical even though it ultimately runs on logic gates.

THU JUL 16
----------
[X] Don't forget to deploy update email

DEV.METHOD.ALT

WED JUL 15
----------
[X] Taxes

TUE JUL 14
----------
[X] Water foundation

MON JUL 13
----------
Nature trail is hot.

SUN JUL 12
----------
[X] 2 Sprinkler heads
 
SAT JUL 11
----------
Grateful for results of Ainsley's covid test. And to spend time with her.

FRI JUL 10
----------
Need a better social ability to break out of a containment.

THU JUL 9
---------
I'm not you're dad, but I'd get the f out of here.

or

he said, 

WED JUL 8
---------
I want to do everything a little better: code, docs, etc. And want to be more focused on doing the right thing.

postbin

requestbin

[ ] check c1 and 1st!!!!!!!!

TUE JUL 7
---------
There will be a big customer behavior gap as it moves thru the 2-4 year analytic window.

You will have to opt-in to get to the root cause.

Reduce/Fold/Accumulate

MON JUL 6
---------
The isotope tellurium-128 has a half-life of 2.2 septillion years, whose half-life is over 160 trillion times greater than the age of the universe.
- tweet from massimo

SUN JUL 5
---------
Opening: hi. hope you are doing well friend. and appreciate your interest in my thoughts about {x}. here's what's in it for you.

Something outrageous

Context

Concepts

Example/Story

Meta

Programming w/ Presidents
Tonight on CodeLine, we bring you inside a secret facility where we have interviews and recordings of American presidents learning to develop software.

Using inside informants, we will share limited but recent audio recordings of ...


SAT JUL 4
---------
Boat house. swimming. corn hole winners bracket. Mike, Melissa, and family.

Texhoma until 6PM.

Back to Frisco.

3 things
1. training (data architect, scala)
2. fx   
3. podcast or user group

Principal Architect – Data and Analytics	
Azure Data Engineer Associate (DP-200, DP-201)
Azure Data Scientist Associate (DP-100)
Azure DevOps Engineer Expert (AZ-400)
Azure Security Engineer Associate (AZ-500)
Azure Solutions Architect Expert (AZ-300, AZ-301)

FRI JUL 3
---------
Texhoma to see brother. Fireworks on lake. Ainsley. Logan. BBQ. Boat during day and night.

Steve and Sheryl.

THU JUL 2
---------
Cooler
[X] Water
[X] Dr Pepper
[X] 18 pk
[X] Starbuck's frap pack
[X] Energy nut mix
[X] Ice

Academy Sports
[X] Boat or swimming shoes
[X] Socks

Other
[X] Laundry 
[X] Pack clothes
[X] Mouth wash
[X] Face masks

12 hr pack
[X] Surface
[X] Mouse
[X] Power supply
[X] High-power iphone charger
[X] Infrared scope? Yes

WED JUL 1
---------
WED 13:17 20%: almost 4 whole days - 2 hrs
Recharge
WED 13:19 20%
WED 15:05 100% (probably sooner)

TUE JUN 30
----------
NASA 1969 term: program alarm

TUE 11:22 54%
TUE 17:39 37% (gps)

Dates
AUG 4
AUG 8
AUG 18
AUG 31
NOV 23-25
NOV 27
DEC 21-23
DEC 28-30

MON JUN 29
----------
F# as modeling tool.

SUN JUN 28
----------
"There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy." - William Shakespeare

The corruption of the media means you have undermined democracy and our constitutional protections.

We do not have a free press. We do not have democracy.

A spectre of a threat.

SUN 12:47 92%
SUN 19:22 86%

SAT JUN 27
----------
Battery experiment #1: iPhone full charge 

TUE 13:22 100% charged
TUE 16:05 100%
TUE 19:47 98%
WED 06:00 91%
WED 08:41 89%
WED 18:46 80% 
THU 12:55 63%
THU 16:54 59%
THU 20:46 56% 
FRI 07:49 49%
FRI 13:00 43%
FRI 15:05 41%
FRI 17:44 39%
FRI 21:23 35%
FRI 23:18 33% 
SAT 09:41 26% (walk)
SAT 10:57 22% 
SAT 12:27 20%
SAT 13:22 19% 
4 full days with 19% left

SAT 13:22 Starting recharge
SAT 13:42 52%
SAT 13:52 66%
SAT 14:17 86%
SAT 14:57 99%
SAT 15:02 100%

FRI JUN 26
----------
reality is the only place you can get a decent meal.

"we are sick and tired of being sick and tired."

keep that keyboard moving as fast as your mind and you will be fine.

"civil rights aren't always civil"

THU JUN 25
----------
ADL
Cons
No update or delete
File size

WED JUN 24
----------
Q: How to only span two monitors w/ RDP?
https://www.hanselman.com/blog/HowToRemoteDesktopFullscreenRDPWithJustSOMEOfYourMultipleMonitors.aspx

TUE JUN 23
----------
Battery experiment #1:
iPhone 11 pro max full charge 100% @ TUE 13:22

TUE 16:05: 100%
TUE 19:47: 98%


MON JUN 22
----------
Tumbling Window Triggers
------------------------
Tumbling window triggers are more reliable because of retry capability as well as because they can retain state.

If the value for the frequency element (or window size) of the trigger changes, the state of the windows that are already processed is not reset. The trigger continues to fire for the windows from the last window that it executed by using the new window size.

If the value for the endTime element of the trigger changes (added or updated), the state of the windows that are already processed is not reset. The trigger honors the new endTime value. If the new endTime value is before the windows that are already executed, the trigger stops. Otherwise, the trigger stops when the new endTime value is encountered.

In case of Scheduled triggers, the use of a schedule can limit the number of trigger executions. For example, if a trigger with a monthly frequency is scheduled to run only on day 31, the trigger runs only in those months that have a 31st day. (Read Schedule property for more info)

These features make Tumbling window trigger more reliable than scheduled trigger.

SUN JUN 21
----------
Hang with Ainse. Waffles. 

Jurassic Park Marathon w/ Ainse. BBQ.

SAT JUN 20
----------
Deep Learning Notes
-------------------
Deep Learning 
    Example: Multi-layer perceptron (ann w/ multiple hidden layers)
    One of names gone by: ANN

Deep Learning is a kind of...
    Representation Learning is a kind of ...
        Machine Learning is a kind of ...
            Artificial Intelligence

Models
    ANN: were intended to be computational models of biological learning

    Deep learning models: engineered systems inspired by the biological brain
        Two ideas:
            1. the brain provides a proof by example that intelligent behavior is possible, and a conceptually straightforward path to building intelligence is to reverse engineer the computational principles behind the brain and duplicate its functionality
            2. 

It appeals to a more general principle of learning multiple levels of composition, which can be applied in machine learning frameworks that are not necessarily neurally inspired.

A rough rule of thumb: a supervised deep learning algorithm will generally achieve acceptable performance with around 5,000 labeled examples per category and will match or exceed human performance when trained with a dataset containing at least 10 million labeled examples.

Since the introduction of hidden units, artificial neural networks have doubled in size roughly every 2.4 years.
    Drive by...
        faster computers
        larger datasets
    The trend ...
        looks set to continue for decades. Unless new technologies enable faster scaling, artificial neural networks will not have the same number of neurons as the human brain until at least the 2050s

Reinforcement learning: autonomous agent must learn to perform a task by trial and error without guidance from operator.

Deep learning is an ML approach that has drawn heavily from...
    knowledge of human brain
    statistics
    applied math

Linear Algebra (the needed parts)

    Product operation
    C = AB
    Ci,j= Σ Ai,kBk,j
            k


FRI JUN 19
----------
https://towardsdatascience.com/linear-algebra-explained-in-the-context-of-deep-learning-8fcb8fca1494

https://www.deeplearningbook.org/


THU JUN 18
----------
Overcome knowledge illusion. Help others. Be kind. 

to quantify degrees of belief.

WED JUN 17
----------
An append only database seems like a concern in a world of CCPA.

workstation4423

v 14393.0 for winget

[X] Reinstall Kinect driver: 
    https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=57578#:~:text=To%20install%20the%20Kinect%20for%20Windows%20Runtime%3A%20Make,your%20PC.%20Right%20click%20kinectsensor.inf%20and%20click%20Install.
[ ] Add my fin account to phone

TUE JUN 16
----------
Just because you can use code to configure/deploy tons of templates doesn't mean you should. You still have to get your splits right.

MON JUN 15
----------
You be you.  

That must be your narrative as well.

Data biases
-----------
Survivor bias
GIGO
Cherry picking
Number without a context
Graph that doesn't start at 0
Confusing fluctuations with trends

How was data collected?

SUN JUN 14
----------
Scala vs Kotlin
+ both jvm based w/ javascript ability as well

F# vs ?

Platform Support: iOS, Android, Web, JS/Client
#1: F#
#2: Scala/Kotlin
#3: 

Job Market

Fx Name: IO.I

SAT JUN 13
----------
Qualified immunity. Unless constitutional violation.

Did I commit a crime? Then I don't need to provide you with any information including identification.

Are you detaining me?
Yes. Why?

Did you know that if you violate my constitutional rights, then you no longer have qualified immunity?

Examples of Government is above the Law (in the way the average citizen is not)
+ Qualified immunity
+ Militarized  
+ Drones
+ Spying
+ Any time violate constitutional or civil rights
+ Experimentation on humans
+ Hacking
+ Smear campaigns
+ Murder
+ Assault & battery
+ Speeding 
+ Surveillance?
+ Drug people without consent
+ 

Not above the law (or exposed)
+ Watergate break-in (Nixon resigned; others prison)


Conspiracy theories that turned out to be true
+ The govt poisoned alcohol during prohibition and killed thousands
+ mk-ultra 1953-1969; gave unsuspecting people LSD
+ the govt spies on you; Snowden
+ the govt is spying on media
+ govt lied to get country involved into wars
+ govt can control the weather; cloud seeding used as far back as vietnam war


FRI JUN 12
----------
Sonic Blast w/ Reeses.

THU JUN 11
----------
New Thai place down street: Yummy Thai
Panang Tofu Curry

So good.

WED JUN 10
----------
You know: we are trying to provides test doubles for all the IO. So IO should definitely be isolated in general.

TUE JUN 9
---------
Q: OO isolating via test fakes with dependency injection: is it really testing in isolation?
A: Yes. It could just be a lot more isolated. It's also a unit test in a sense that you can turn off the network and the test still runs.

MON JUN 8
---------
Humor at the cost of another is expensive entertainment.

SUN JUN 7
---------
Grateful: working on difficult problems for good people.

Show gratitude to those who do good.

[X] Link b-accts 
    
SAT JUN 6
---------
Q: Is ignorance bliss?
A: Not unless you're lucky. Wouldn't you like to learn it all. Or be given the gift of knowing it all. A burden? Partly.

Stoicism. A way to deal/overcome w/ the deceit, deception, ego, manipulation,  ... of yourself and others.

Compliment
Thank you sir/ma'am. you are just looking at the tip of it in my view. here is why...

FRI JUN 5
---------
[X] Get it done

THU JUN 4
----------
GCI Hadoop to DataBricks migration

Is social media a cess pool for fake reactive behavior?
Mostly. But what value?

Real news. fake news.

WED JUN 3
---------
Mock objects are mocking you.

Mutation spoils simple reasoning
    6 Integers - has more states that the number of atoms in the universe

TUE JUN 2
---------
[X] Call Spectrum!

AR reality blending.

Listening is wanting to hear and understand what is being said.

Every single day, one kind thing for another developer without exception.

I used to say that we need another 60's. A fight for rights and govt tirany (constitution). I guess I got what I asked. What is ironic is that when we rise up to govt programming/proganda/manipulating/oppression, it is still used even more -- during against the uprising. Who? Multiple parties at play -- foreign and domestic.

MON JUN 1
---------
Ainsley graduates!

Live stream:
https://www.nfhsnetwork.com/events/frisco-independent-school-district/evt322038c3d1

ADL
The maximum number of output files of 100,000 has been exceeded

The dark web is a little like the early web but more ephemeral

I try not to do disrespect and if i do i own up to it. Sometimes circumstances are extreme and no other option.

No wait until I tell you why; you are going to have to wait.

Problem Solving
    Break the problem down and become an idea machine
        What is the problem?
        What is the cause of the problem?
        What are all the solutions to the problem?
        What solution do you suggest?


save 1000 or more beautiful lives, because you're not one product away from happiness;  

i believe that super-human stuff is possible;

freud was right and dewey said it better: the need to feel important drives human behavior.

Thank you momma. For showing me the super power of having a positive mindset. 

SUN MAR 31
----------
I'm a rule follower.
R: You certainly are. You even have a rule for following the rules.

philosophy: stand on the shoulders of giants and be grateful; Freud was right and dewey said it better: the need to feel important drives high level human behavior; maybe why i'm even saying this now;

Music - especially old - can unlock not only memories and emotions but potential.

I willing and able. 

Perhaps a counter balance to freud's theory of ego.

Q: Does automated fact checker mean censor?
A: Yeah.

Destruction Of America Plan:

- Create irrational mass fear
- Strip a free population of their God-given rights
- Make work/worship illegal
- Unemployment +40 million
- Give police-state unlimited power
- Cop abuse power
- Mass media stokes identity hatred
- Organize riots
- Burn

SAT MAR 30
----------
Think Security

Security Ideas:
Use separate account for sites: gpublic@ for example
The logic: bc it will be known and likely compromised at some point

Use another account for banking: gprivate@ for example
the logic: keep it separate; less likely to be compromised

Use other accounts for email only

[X] Need new/better password scheme.
[X] Create new accounts


FRI MAR 29
----------
[X] Order glasses

For think4.me everafter. 

a: Seeing the world thru your eyes has been the most long lasting joy of my life.

Code Smell: Output parameters

Question: Can we know it all -- is it possible even with augmentation?

Theory: There will always be the unknown.

Hypothesis: prove one thing that will never be known.

Weaponized racism.

First principles: Society is a contract of behavior for a large group. 

The contract has been broken in multiple ways.

If the government does not abide by the law, then why should the people. And if the gov't doesn't abide by the law is true, then where is society. It becomes a tyranny. The root cause? Our constitution protects us from this kind of govt tyranny. It has been compromised. The govt propaganda and programming is backfiring too.   

I suspect gun sales will rise. Will that be compromised?

THU MAR 28
----------
Aristotle courage quote:

"Success is never final, failure is never fatal. It's courage that counts." - John Wooden

https://www.maurice.nl/covid-19-english/

WED MAR 27
----------
"Upload" on Amazon

TUE MAR 26
----------
Deliver the best data that you can.

MON MAR 25
----------
AR does trick your mind into believing you've taken both the blue and red pill.
Unlike other tools before, you and the computer are connected in a way that is surreal. Are you in the program or is the program in you?

SUN MAR 24
----------
Free Logic Books
https://github.com/OpenLogicProject/OpenLogic/wiki/Other-Logic-Textbooks

TLA+
https://www.learntla.com/introduction/


SAT MAR 23
----------
Q: What is attractive (in non-Freud-ean way -- to keep list minimal)?
A: If authentic and pure: joy, heart, (do good - w/o highway to hell), courage, pursuit, passion, innovation (problem solving), .... 

Perhaps, humanity is not so freud-ean?
It's always been a simplification of human behavior.

FRI MAR 22
----------
3 day weekend!

pubg:
1 chicken dinner

THU MAR 21
----------
Call Kenny P.
Call Mike
Call Richard

Find reference on 

WED MAR 20
----------
[X] Oof. Broke my glasses. Order back up.

TUE MAR 19
----------
Simple explanation of augmented reality:
The headset is expected to use AR technology, which overlays computer images on the real world, and VR, which tricks your brain into believing you've been transported into a computer program.
https://www.cnet.com/news/apples-ar-glasses-wont-launch-until-at-least-2022-analyst-says/

[X] analyze other adl failure for pattern  

Apple Air

General advice: what ever it is, we'll figure it out.

Use rev2

MON MAR 18
----------
[ ] Check child level parameters to see if error bubbles up in ADL
[ ] Double check date conversion from umbraco

could be good toast: don't get too full of yourself. here is to keeping things in moderation especially moderation itself! or to end one.

SUN MAR 17
----------
A cowboy looking for trouble almost always finds it.

Try spinach and brocoli omelette.

[X] Wire dual panels
[X] Wire mgmt 24" touch 
[ ] Fix light below keyboard
[X] Fix cabling on 360


SAT MAR 16
----------
[X] Move wifi
[X] Move dual panels
[X] Clean-up work bench


FRI MAR 15
----------
[X] Pay bills
[X] Change password
[X] Timesheet

Home Depot
[X] Insulation and caulk

I'm getting what I expect not what I want.


THU MAR 14
----------
If you're going to hack the life/simulation then focus and take action on what you want to happen -- not what you expect to happen.

Negative
I don't want her to turn out to be like X. I don't want her to turn out to be like you.

WED MAR 13
----------
Q: When is a pivot a downhill slide?
A: When it doesn't work? How to identify? maybe dip vs decline

TUE MAR 12
----------
[X] Install lab AC
    [X] Remove black out
    [X] Clean lower
    [X] Install panel
    [X] Screw at top
    [X] Black out shades

sftp vs ftps: ssl vs ssh

MON MAR 11
----------
Broken Bow: day 4
    Paddle board at spill way
    Kayak 
    Drive hm via paris tx

SUN MAR 10
----------
Broken Bow: day 3
    Mountain trail at state park; treacherous, exciting, and fun. 
    Grateful for spending time with ainse, megan, and sean; energy, joy, and viewpoint
    Logan log
    Grill

SAT MAR 9
---------
Broken Bow: day 2
    Nature walk w/ Ainsley; no trail
    Dinner w/ watsons

FRI MAR 8
---------
Worry about vnets not subnets. web. business. data. ...

Broken Bow: day 1
    Drive
    Arrived at 4:00 pm
    No electricity

THU MAR 7
---------
Don't speak negatively about yourself, even as a joke. Your body doesn't know the difference. Words are energy and cast spells, that's why they call it spelling. Change the way you speak about yourself and you can change your life. What you're not changing, you're also choosing. - Bruce Lee

Q: What will the impact to system behavior be? Will it go crazy?

Consider using video instead of podcast

[X] Timesheet
[X] Status

WED MAY 6
---------
Spectrum June 30

Q: What percentage of time should be used collaborating? Or what general percentage?
A: This might be more of a range; where there are pros/cons for each level. 

0-10%:  getting things done; but right things?
10-25%:  
25-50%: 
50-75%:     
75-100%: probably not getting much done; facilitator

I suspect the sweet spot might be closer to 25% or less for most roles.

TUE MAY 5
---------
Problem Solving Patterns: need references like to "Ways to solve problems" from around 1931.

    pattern: pause. zoom out. (and first principles).

        context: when you are stuck either in a solution or problem space

        what to do: take a moment and pause. zoom out to what is really important. use first principles to do what is probably right. the fundamental truths or goals.

        advice: perhaps should be top of list bc blindspot for most people (me)

        examples: one non-math or cs example of first principles: the goal of a comedian is to make people laugh. steve martin used first-principles to violate one of the most important rules/patterns in comedy which was to release the laughter with a punch line. martin uses no punch lines. he went to first principles.

        references:
            How to think like a rocket scientist

    pattern: soln backwards
        context: 

        what to do: start at soln and work backwards to what is feasible


    pattern: stepping stones

        ref: kent beck

    pattern: big bang

    pattern: parallel paths

        context: mission critical change

        what to do: develop new system parallel to existing system. and compare results at key integration pts. soak test on real data.

        ref: kent beck

    pattern: problem space to soln space
        define

    pattern: embrace your current problem
        there is just going to be another one.

    pattern: move on

    pattern: we chose x in support of y accepting downside z

    pattern:

MON MAY 4
---------
Biological Neurons
    200 HZ

    Axons
    100 m/s

Artificial Neurons 
    2 GHZ
    3 million meters /s

in one week, 

SUN MAY 3
---------

Brooks: predicted that 10 X improvement in software would not happen again

But yet it has. 

SAT MAY 2
---------
[X] Prep for install
    12"x13'x30"

FRI MAY 1
---------
Confirmation bias. Character attribution bias.

THU APR 30
----------
Q: Grateful?
A: I'm grateful and happy for stable system: adl. And for being patient to get to root cause. -- Appu

WED APR 29
----------
Q: In 5 years, will you be writing code with vscode, mirage (virtual/augmented monitors), and Hololens?

https://hothardware.com/news/microsoft-hololens-mirage-app-multiple-virtual-monitors

Likely but right now you can buy 10 monitors for price of Hololens. But with Moore's law -- it will be soon.

TUE APR 28
----------
https://www.wired.com/2010/03/heidegger-tools/

MON APR 27
----------
Q: Is there a correlation between generosity and guilt?
A:

SUN APR 26
----------
Q: Grateful?
A: Coffee; nature walk trail

Nova: Look who's driving
    https://www.pbs.org/video/look-whos-driving-65sadz/

    Setting a standard that is significantly better than human performance.

Propositions as Types
by Philip Wadler

    http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/wadler/papers/propositions-as-types/propositions-as-types.pdf

    propositions as types -- aka Curry-Howard isomorphism
    proofs as programs

https://gciruelos.com/propositions-as-types.html

    logic	type theory	Haskell
    p	    A	        a
    p∧q	    A×B	        (a,b)
    p∨q	    A+B	        Either a b
    p⇒q     A→B	        a -> b
    ∀xP(x)	∏a:AP(a)	
    ∃xP(x)	∑a:AP(a)	


SAT APR 25
----------
Launch
    start vscode
    cd ./core in powershell
    sbt launchIDE

FRI APR 24
----------
Scala or F#?
Maybe it's really about the platform (): dotnet core vs jvm

big data, mobile, web, cloud

THU APR 23
----------
Data Engineering Principles
    Immutable data (other two are difficult without)
    Lineage
    Validation

Q: Grateful?
A: Health of my family.

WED APR 22
----------
Q: Grateful?
A: To have hair. And will be as long as it lasts.

TUE APR 21
----------
Worry (Risk) driven development

Q: Grateful?
A: That I'm working and doing interesting work. Very.

MON APR 20
----------
[X] Fix monitor cabling
[X] Nature walk

SUN APR 19
----------
Q: Grateful?
A: Movies w/ ainsley.

3 Levels
0 Meta
1 Autonomous/Reactive
2 High level

SAT APR 18
----------
Q: Grateful?
A: Nature walk with Ainsley and movies.

FRI APR 17
----------
TG

Walked with Ainsley

THU APR 16
----------
Grateful for spending time with Ainse. Cooking and watching movies.

WED APR 15
----------
Don't get too full of yourself. Use checklists.

TUE APR 14
----------
[X] Taxes final

solo. pubg chicken dinner. 

%APPDATA%\Roaming?\Microsoft\Teams\Backgrounds\Uploads

MON APR 13
----------
solo. pubg chicken dinner.

SUN APR 12
----------
fallacy of the body-in-seat mentality.

SAT APR 11
----------
Motating is human. It has so many benefits. Do it when you can.

FRI APR 10
----------
Obviously, you've been exposed to a lot of technology. How did you discover your passion for programming and development?

THU APR 9
---------
[X] Taxes!

WED APR 8
---------
Nature walk!

TUE APR 7
---------
vcxserve for WSL

MON APR 6
---------
Number of programmers in US:
Today, the U.S. leads the world in software developers, with about 3.6 million. India has about 2.75 million. But by 2018, India will have 5.2 million developers, a nearly 90% increase, versus 4.5 million in the U.S., a 25% increase though that period, Evans Data projects.

In 2018, China will have about 1.9 million programmers, and Russia about 1.3 million, Evans Data projects.

https://www.statista.com/statistics/318818/numbers-of-programmers-and-software-development-professionals-in-the-uk/

SUN APR 5
---------
[X] Nature walk! Even if cold. No matter if it's raining.

There are many ways to abstract our thought.
I like left brain / right brain abstraction - even though it's probably wrong.
I believe that was disproven over 20 years ago.


SAT APR 4
---------
Focus on side two things (no more; maybe less):
    podcast (w/ just me); maybe programming with presidents section
    fx

New Template:

The Q
    Question
    Deconstruct/Reframe
    Examples or Story
    Reveal
    Alternatives
    
The News

Meta
    Please send questions to xyz: either voice or text.

Programming with Presidents


FRI APR 3
---------
Bus speeds
    USB 2.0: 480 Mbps
    USB 3.0: 5 Gbps
    USB 3.1: 10 Gbps
    Thunderbolt: 10 Gbps
    Thunderbolt 2: 20 Gbps
    Thunderbolt 3 (inludes usb 3.1): 40 Gbps

HDMI 1.4: 10.2 Gbps
Display Port 1.4: 25.92 Gbps
Display Port 2.0: 77.4 Gbps

THU APR 2
---------
Keep moving.

WED APR 1
---------
Advice to beginning enterprise developers:  
+ Always assume everything you write or do on the screen is being monitored. and it likely will be at least at some point. watch what you say and your mindset. don't gossip. In fact, don't talk about anyone unless it is helpful. Anonymous survey's aren't always anonymous.

TUE MAR 31
----------
rueben, keena, sunil, eric, juan, joel, me

MON MAR 30
----------
Q: Is the web just all talk? No action?
A: Counter: Amazon. The noise on the web is all talk perhaps. And there is a lot of it.


Notes on "Invisible Solutions" by Stephen Shapiro

25 Lenses
    Reduce Abstraction
        #1: Leverage
        #2: Deconstruct
        #3: Reduce
        #4: Eliminate
        #5: Hyponym

    Increase Abstraction
        #6: Analogy
        #7: Result
        #8: Concern Reframe
        #9: Stretch
        #10: Hypernum

    Change Perspective
        #11: Resequence
        #12: Reassign
        #13: Access
        #14: Emotion
        #15: Substitute

    Switch Elements
        #16: Flip
        #17: Conflicts
        #18: Performance Paradox
        #19: Pain vs Gain
        #20: Bad Idea

    Zero In
        #21: Real Problems
        #22: Real Business
        #23: Insights
        #24: Variation
        #25: Observation

SUN MAR 29
----------
Remote working tips are great. But it seems time to change they we work. To be more focused on the work than the chair or place. 

Do we manage worker's time and place because we don't know how to manage their work?

Q: How do you focus on the work?  the flow of work?
A: Priorities. Embrace Problems: Problem Space/Soln Space. Focused. Outcomes.

Q: How do you measure performance in remote work environment?
A: Are the meeting results. Desired outcomes.

Augmented Reality
Q: How is AR going to change UI?
A:

Q: Is this really true? "A question opens the mind. A statement closes it."
A: Seems like a statement could open the mind as well. Perhaps, this is better.
Nothing opens the mind like a question.

SAT MAR 28
----------
AZ-203/AZ-204: Developer
AZ-500: Azure Security Expert
AZ-300: Soln Expert
AZ-301: Soln Expert
AZ-400: Expert DevOps

AZ-103:

FRI MAR 27
----------
Pubg lesson: listen for multiples.

Deep work is about flow. 
All work is about flow. 

[ ] Record and edit!

I'm still tortured between scala and f#.

THU MAR 26
----------
Q: Why keep events simple and not combined?
A: 1. Performance 2. Complexity of lifecycle 

Q: What does the universe need?
A: Really good random number generator.

Entanglement. Superpositions.

WED MAR 25
----------
I can't move camera but here is a tour I made few years ago: https://bit.ly/DeepWorkLab

Q: What is it about?
A: Forever navigating the dynamism of the universe.

TUE MAR 24
----------
[X] Install Kinect
[X] Drivers for WDF KinectSensor Interface 0
    Steps below weren't necesary anymore

MON MAR 23
----------
[X] Order Kinect adapter cable $26

SUN MAR 22
----------
Q: Is Kinect an option as webcam and hello -- in the spirit of repurposing hw?
A: Microsoft has drivers to let the Kinect do this in a different update channel. Here's how to get those drivers from Windows Update.

Opt-in to receive test distribution drivers
Open the Windows Registry Editor (regedit.exe).
Go to HKLM\Software\Microsoft\
Create subkeys \DriverFlighting\Partner\
Under \Partner subkey, create a string named “TargetRing” and key-in “Drivers” as the value.
Get the drivers from Device Manager or Windows Update
From Device Manager:

Open Device Manager (Windows key + x, then m).
Expand “Kinect sensor devices”.
Right-click on "WDF KinectSensor Interface 0".
Click "Update Driver Software..."
Click “Search automatically for updated driver software”.
Allow it to download and install the new driver.
Reboot.
You can now use the Kinect for Xbox One as a webcam and for Windows Hello.

[X] Mount Kinect w/ boom
    + barely

SAT MAR 21
----------
Some things are infinitely irreplaceable. 

But my hardened Dell is not one of them. It popped while using. Repair or salvage?

FRI MAR 20
----------
subterfuge: deceit used in order to achieve one's goal.

Q: Is success achieved by intimidation or subterfuge really success?
A: Nope.

Q: What is success then?
A:

THU MAR 19
----------
Devs S1E4 at 8:00 FX on Hulu

WED MAR 18
----------
Time to write a masterpiece.

TUE MAR 17
----------
Cinemark theaters close worldwide. 

MON MAR 16
----------
Devs on FX is good. My new favorite.

SUN MAR 15
----------
West World Premiere S3
    What is real?
    
    i think people believe in things that help them.
    the challenge: is it helping?

    mood shirt.

Intel NUC NUC8I7HVK
+ Capable
+ Can drive 4 Quads and up to 6 displays
+ Medium gaming
+ Portable 5.7" x 8.7" x 1"

SAT MAR 14
----------
Data Normalization
fn: ProbabilityOfBuyingTickets
inputs
    userId: int; min-max scaling + room
    movieId: int; min-max scaling + room
    rating: enum; min-max scaling on value
    genre: enum; min-max scaling on value
    title: word frequency;  
        each word could produce value and then normalize
    ticketQuantity: int; 

outputs
    [0,1] probability of buying

FRI MAR 13
----------
Min-max Scaling
    xNormalized= (x - xMin) / (xMax - xMin)

    The data is normalized to a scale of [0,1]

Decimal Scaling
    vNormalized = vI / (10^j)

    where j is the smallest integer such that max(|vNormalized|) < 1

    The data is normalalized to a scale of [-1,1]

Z-score 

THU MAR 12
----------
Like the petulant church lady from Sat night. The road to hell is paved with good intentions.

Scenes I like
+ in the zone accounting scene in the accoutant; with the glass; could be used in cyber thriller

Ego, Sex, and the need to connect.

NCAA Tourney's cancelled :-( 

WED MAR 11
----------
From data is beautiful. Programming language popularity from 1969-2019:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JqnbAJY1Osg&feature=emb_logo
    Kinda forgot about Pascal's popularity.

TUE MAR 10
----------
Q: What is field of study for mapping parameters to a ANN?
A: Data normalization and standardization.

Techniques such as min-max, softmax, z-score, decimal scaling, box-cox and etc.  
Some techniques are sensitive to outliers in the data.


MON MAR 9
---------
nondeterminism (countable and uncountable, plural nondeterminisms) (computing) Dependence on factors other than initial state and input. Moving from a single-processor to a multi-processor system often exposes hidden nondeterminism due to invalid assumptions about scheduling.

deterministic. Algorithm, model, procedure, process, etc., whose resulting behavior is entirely determined by its initial state and inputs, and which is not random or stochastic. Processes or projects having only one outcome are said to be deterministic their outcome is 'pre-determined.

SUN MAR 8
---------
West World Season 3 starts next sunday 3/15.

Devs. Hulu.


SAT MAR 7
---------
Challenge question: challenge something conventional with a question.

 with R.D. and me.

Questions that challenge conventional thinking in software development.

Taking on questions that challenge convention wisdom and best practices in software development.

What is the segmentation template for the podcast?
Intro, Challenge Question or Problem Statement in form of question (Concept, Example, Story, Data, Next Steps), and Closing (call to action)

Problem Frame/Solution Frame

I help him learn more about software development and he helps me get unstuck.

Voice tips
    Do not slouch - it stops the lungs from filling up; can make your voice crack
    Pace
    Pitch
    Pauses
    Passion
    Get rid of nasal. say "Ing--Ah"; Do a yawn to open mouth wide

Scientific Method: Tailored for podcast
    Observation: every developer has something that have to go to; use every time; sometimes multiple things
    Question: What's your something?
    Hypothesis: 
    Experiment:
    Results/Data/Additional links:
    Conclusion:

(Observation or concept, Question, Hypothesis, Story, Data, Next Steps)

FRI MAR 6
---------
Q: What are the benefits of weirdness?
A: Leads to natural self.  

Every expert was once a beginner.

Q: How to get unstuck?
A: do. think. change env. stillness. work on something different.

Q: Problem-oriented development?
Q: What is the biggest thing?
A: reframe, validate: common understanding, problem stmt, soln-

tedx
[X] be authentic
[ ] surrender the outcome
[X] be willing to do the uncomfortable work

THU MAR 5
---------
Q: How to give nice feedback on code that fully doesn't do everything it needs due to lack of requirements or missing?
A: there might be gaps in the logic

Genes -> Neural circuits (instincts) -> "thought" -> feelings -> behavior --->

While this might seem cool. I'd rather live my normal life.

WED MAR 4
---------
Remote working notes from Chris Herd; articles on linked in

Open Office? Look around. How many people are wearing noise-cancelling headphones? It has become the only defense against the worst possible working environment.

Access to great talent.
Retain best people.
Expand talent pool.

Reaction against
    time in office as KPI
    bad middle management
    waste in commuting
    well being/health
    lower quality of life
    neon lights

Companies who don't:
Will lose their best people to their biggest competitors that do

Provides optimum workspace you need to do your best work

Deep work

Companies who trust their hires are more poised to have sustained growth. Structure Built on a culture of trust endures longer and better.

Isolation is a feature, not a bug.

TUE MAR 3
---------
The benefits of checklists. Who? Pilots, Doctors, ..
The benefits of journaling. Who? Writers, Scientists, Engineers, Pilots, Doctors, ...

Workflow Oriented Services
Q: What about data services need to drive workflow?
A: In a group of data services not workflow

Learning
    Data Science
    ANN
    F# web frameworks
    A.I.
    Spark
    More Scala?

MON MAR 2
---------
Had a go-live. Thought it would go perfectly and it didn't but got thru it.

SUN MAR 1
---------
War of Worlds. 8

SAT FEB 29
----------
sample size, 

workflow oriented services

FRI FEB 28
----------
entity-service anti-pattern.

pubg solo. winner winner chicken dinner. IIII

THU FEB 27
----------
Free breakfast.
Free lunches.

WED FEB 26
----------
The measure of intelligence is the ability to change - Albert Einstein

TUE FEB 25
----------
ADL Advice: spread out the joins in usql.

MON FEB 24
----------
Code name: r.d.

SUN FEB 23
----------
I'm tired of phones made of glass. What about something light weight -- like on westworld or at least inspired. Better use of materials and power required.


SAT FEB 22
----------
"It's your words that count, not your spelling." - Branson

FRI FEB 21
----------
[ ] Do some test recordings

Q: Is design thinking focused mostly on the new? What about being more problem driven?

THU FEB 20
----------
You're right. We don't want to see this on film. I'm already taping over it my mind.  

WED FEB 19
----------
Migration Issues. It's always the logic apps. Need a better way to migrate.

TUE FEB 18
----------
Q: How old is spoken language?
A: 25k in sync w/ behavior change? Probably much longer. It would be nice if it were only 25k to correspond, but could be closer to 100k. Even Neandethals hhad speech capabilities which goes back 400k. 

Probably looks bad to even try to answer this question. Language is a part of us.

Putting down the bad gives no peace.



MON FEB 17
----------
The further a society drifts from the truth the more it will hate those who speak it. - george orwell

If Neanderthals had a modern-like (spoken) language-like capacity, then it stands to reason this derived from the common ancestor they shared with humans: Homo heidelbergensis. 


SUN FEB 16
----------
Q: How does understanding of the problem flow to a dev team typically?
A: From BAs, scrum masters, and stake holders. but usually do not start trying to understand until sprint planning. This can be the bottleneck. Sometimes made longer by needs of stake holder or other role not being prepared or to make their life easier.

To I
----
#1: Personal branding
    !Podcast
#2: Make time to network
#3: Prepare
    Dental repair
    cc


SAT FEB 15
----------
French Brunch w/ Jen for Valentines. 

The observer always changes the behavior of the observed.

[ ] Limit LinkedIn, Twitter, general surfing, and pubg.
[ ] F#
[ ] 

F# GUI: Fabulous
Web Dev: Fable (F# -> JS), Sauve, WebSharper

WebSharper
- Add complexity

Fable
- just a f# to js compiler

Suave
- just backend

SAFE
- Suave.io, Azure, Fable, Elmish

Elmish: Elm-like abstractions for F# apps

FRI FEB 14
----------
Multi-monitor RDP will not maintain window positions within the session.

mstsc /span "seems to help"

winner winner chicken dinner. pubg. 6k. 

THU FEB 13
----------
Dogma is a coping mechanism for dealing with the world. Provides order and understanding. Until it collapses -- dogma that is.

winner winner chicken dinner. pubg. 8 k. followed by 100th.

WED FEB 12
----------
Three important things to validate/test
    The problem statement (problem space)
    Common understanding of problem statement (problem space)
    The solution or implementation of the problem statement (soln space)


TUE FEB 11
----------
ZombieLand double tap w/ Ainsley.

Q: How can one validate/test that the team has a common understanding?
A: Echo back what you heard; review it; good docs; conceptually test the flow; test the model;

MON FEB 10
----------
Event Stream Processing. Performance patterns.

The goals is not to be better than the other man but your previous self. - Dalai Lama


SUN FEB 9
---------
The problem is not planning/guessing. The problem is common understanding.

Q: Is planning just used as a mechanism for understanding? 
Or you are trying to understand while you are planning. And that is where most of the time is spent.

SAT FEB 8
---------
Math for CS
    Category Theory
    Linear Algebra
    Graph Theory
    Lambda Calculus
    Gradient Descent (calculus)
    Stats
    Numerical Methods
    Complexity Theory

FRI FEB 7
---------
pubg: winner winner chicken dinner. #2. 

THU FEB 6
---------
AI is bringing computing to life.

WED FEB 5
---------
Inspired by a statement from Rob C.

A successful client might not be responsive to your list of suggested changes/tools and technologies to incorporate. They've probably made lots of $ without the need of your best practices and dogma. Your goals do not appear to be aligned from the client's perspective.

I've seen a principal consultant come to a successful client with a list of at least 10 technologies to incorporate including a rule-based system to an already complex project. Probably done close to it myself. Maybe I had 15. Who knows. 

I'm not even sure what the total license cost would have been. But some consultant can't just come in with a one million dollar list and expect a smart successful business to say yes. They've been pitched in all sorts of ways to spend $. If you were to add 5 more to you list in hopes of getting top 3, then you'll like be viewed as someone that is all over the map. Not focused. While a few of the suggestions might have warranted consideration, his ideas and credibility were torpedoed.

Don't believe I've come to a client with a list that big but sure I've made this mistake many times in retrospective.

He would have been better off studying decision making than making those recommendations.

Good to realize: In general, most people are not going to follow your recommendations even if you are considered an expert. But they likely want to hear them.

What to do?
    Be open minded.
    Be minimal with growth mindset.
    Defer recommending best practices and technologies or do it slowly. Because the company was able to become successful without the need of your best practices and dogma.
    Listen more.
    Make the hard recommendation.
    You'd better cut your list down and be very focused on what it is they're getting.
What not to do?
    Have a manifesto


TUE FEB 4
---------
"Weeks of coding can save you hours of planning." - Unknown

MON FEB 3
---------
Project kickoff. Had time to think, structure, and sequence.

Nature walk.

SUN FEB 2
---------
KC vs 49ers

Nature walk and nap. Beautiful weather.

SAT FEB 1
---------
Spark vs Hadoop

Apache spark is faster than Hadoop because it operates by ingesting all the data, performing the required operations/analytics on the data and writing it out to the disk in one full shot. Apache Hadoop on the other hand has an intermediate disk write between operations, and thus it’s slower. Even today, I/O seems to be the costliest operation though the advent of SSDs has reduced it by quite a good margin.

Another important reason for Apache Spark’s speed is it’s in-memory data processing capabilities.

Spark was purpose built with real-time capabilities and on-the-fly processing (read stream processing), whereas Hadoop was optimised for bulk processing.

Spark is supposed to be 100x faster than Hadoop when used in-memory and 10x faster even when using disk I/O. 
http://spark.apache.org/


FRI JAN 31
----------
Q: How am I doing?
A: Little too good this week job wise. Hopefuly won't be struck down by lighting like in caddie shack.

pubg: winner winner chicken dinner. solo followed by 4 person team wins


THU JAN 30
----------
Q: What are implications if P=NP?
A: 
Crypto broken. Not necesarily fast, but always crackable.
Crypto currency markets disrupted; way to generate coins faster than everyone else;

Probably the way to make real money. Definitely more than $1 million prize. At least a billion. If not a trillion.

Q: What is downside of default objects?
A: Serializing as Json. rather than null fields they will have value. just noisier. Not sparse.

WED JAN 29
----------
[X] Lunch meeting

HBR: Creativity Needs Displine
    Tolerate failure but not incompetence
    Experiment but w/ disipline
    Collaborate but with individual accountability
    Flat but strong leadership

TUE JAN 28
----------
Politics: the cesspool of humanity is running the world

Q: Is politics the cesspool of humanity and why is a cesspool running the world?
A: Seems so. Probably why governments lie so much.

Will it change?
Likely.

What will it require?
A lot more transparency. Less progaganda/news reporters. Or we need real reporters. some kind of real check or accountability. And counter checks. Trust but verify.

MON JAN 27
----------
Changing bad actors and software
    Counter-measures
        blockchain
        determinism
        encryption
        digital sig
        multi-factor

SUN JAN 26
----------
Overcome knowledge illusion: explain NN; universal approximation function

Want to think about...
    ANN
    Linear alegebra
    Simplifying & isolating I/O
        IO Monad in F#
    Understand modern Fp web framework; patterns
    
SAT JAN 25
----------
Q: How to get started?
A: Load the program.

[X] Need to understand audacity UI better. Maybe youtube video.

FRI JAN 24
----------
Windows Performance Index for Windows 10
1. cmd: winsat formal
2. powershell: get-wmiobject -class win32_winsat

Statusing can take a lot of time, money, and energy. And doesn't add much value in group performance -- other than, how do I fit in and how can I contribute?

It can also lead to disappointment since the status is usually tied to someelse's view of the situation

THU JAN 23
----------
Made the most of my screen time. And there was a lot.

Future A.
It's hard as a parent not to strive to be perfect. To be the best for you. But no one is. I hope I showed you how to process thru it; with love and support. 

It's core, it gives an ability to find a way to get thru anything.

WED JAN 22
----------
Q: Is functional code incomprehensible to those that aren't familar w/ fp? And is there something simple that could change that?
A: Probably as Significant as was OO was to OO programmers. 

Q: What can be done quickly/efficiently -- like explaining parens in lisp: (f x) is just f(x)?
A: Definitely would be language dependent. Need to explain the call from the impl.

F#
--
let y = f x

Algebra Notation
y = f(x)
No.

The key: pipeline.

Scala
-----
The functional idea that everything needs a parameter and a return value. Mostly, Not doing but projecting.

Pure/Avoid mutability. Great benefit.

Needs some investment of time like OO did. Is it more or less? Hard to say. So assume about equivalent.

Idea: start w/ linq
    Immutable
    Params and returns
    HOFs
    function calls

TUE JAN 21
----------
Q: How am I doing?
A: Wish I found more time for learning. More stillness in general. 

Perhaps, stillness is a prereq to even start meditation.

[ ] Setup youtube learning list: ML, NN, BI, Data Science

Power BI Desktop Workflow
    Data prep
        query editor
    Data modelling
        relationship view <-> data view
    Data visualization
        report view

MON JAN 20
----------
Stillness is the key. Ryan Holiday.
    Mind:
    Body:
    Spirit:
5 lines per each day.
How are you feeling?
How are you doing?

proud of x. or disappointed w/ y.

SUN JAN 19
----------
Competition is for losers with peter thiel 2014. You tube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Fx5Q8xGU8k

All happy companies are different because they are doing something very unique.
All unhappy companies are alike because they fail to escape the sameness that is competition.
- Peter thiel

Mimetic Preferences

Durability.

Looking forward to development

Pubg. chicken dinner. #2 following. 5/7 top 10.

SAT JAN 18
----------
Q: Why do we enable bad behaviors?  
A: To get what is wanted. Means to an end. To avoid conflict. Make someone happy. ? Maybe dr. phil template.

FRI JAN 17
----------
Tired. Need a little slack.

THU JAN 16
----------
A. still sick.

WED JAN 15
----------
[X] Haircut
[X] Lunch meeting

TUE JAN 14
----------
From a PCI perspective, none of this is considered sensitive authentication data (SAD).

MON JAN 13
----------
[ ] What to record?
    Storyboard: 5 minutes


SUN JAN 12
----------
+ A. recruited for cheer
+ Nice trip

SAT JAN 11
----------
SFA road trip with A.
STEM tour.

FRI JAN 10
----------
Got it done.

THU JAN 9
---------
Chunking for things that don't need it.

WED JAN 8
---------
Idea: don't refer to the podcast as podcast -- ever

Sessions about software development hosted by greg cowin with a secret developer. To help not only survive but thrive.
Session 000: About
Session 001: Dogma and Mindset
Session 002:  

What's in it for you?
Tools to help you cope and survive and reduce frustration. But not just to survive and thrive.

Why?

Start with a question.


TUE JAN 7
---------
Most of us now live in a distraction factory of a world. Cars, people, devices, displays, martech. Deep work will become a super power for those that can do it.

MON JAN 6
---------
Q: Why not just deploy one file at a time?
A: dependencies and automation.

Q: Why deploy one file at a time?
A: impact is reduced but knowing what is in production over time is 

SUN JAN 5
---------
From previous:
Escaping velocity notes - doc norton
    what is velocity? some # of work units / unit of time
    once velocity stabilizes metric doesn't help
    velocity is not the goal -- once you put a goal as a metric you invalidate it -- it can produce behaviors you are not looking for
    once you set the target, you change the system
    accumulative flow diagram
    the greatest bottleneck is the only one we need to fix

    trailing indicators don't help looking forward

Use instead
    code quality
    lead time: time between initiation and completion
    cycle time: total time from beginning of process as defined by you and your customer

developer joy (on commit) - leading indicator -- 0 - 5 indicator on commit that indicates quality of code they just worked on

mercury app by corey hains

healthy delivery

SAT JAN 4
---------
3 Things
    1. Podcast
    2. ANN/Deep Learning
    3. Automation/AI 

FRI JAN 3
---------
 2 - MSI - Optix MAG270VC 27" LED Curved FHD FreeSync Monitor - Black

[X] Move old-old monitors
[X] Install old monitors in beta station and cabling
[X] Install new monitors in alpha station and cabling

THU JAN 2
---------
pubg. chicken dinner.

WED JAN 1
---------
Visualize success like an athlete. What you think about you bring about.

Do not feel guilty for positive events and praise; otherwise, you must not think you deserve it. Do you deserve it?

Clean-up for New Monitors
[X] Strip unused cables
[X] Strip unused lighting
[X] Strip old power cables from beta
[X] Oil soap

[X] Remove evo robot and others
[X] Rewire display link docking station underneath desk
[X] Rewire mesh
[X] Rewire coffee station
[X] Move lighting controls underneath desks

[X] Destroy old media


[X] Clean-up mesh

Let's get in a growth mindset for the new year. 

Yo-yo effect 

HDMI vs Display Port
    HDMI can only do 120 Hz
    You need DisplayPort to achieve 144 hz